 I remind you what is set up, so inside we have a receptor, so that we can measure the current
 in the membrane, the receptor's membrane, the receptor's membrane, as a function of time,
 and the kind of experiments that were performed were experiments where a torch was turned
 on and off with a regular light density and the factor of the electric current, the membrane, was recorded.
 So, in general, okay, this is IoT, in absence of any light, okay, the current fluctuates, and we said that this is the overall value, the average value of the current,
 which is 0 to 20 p compared, and this fluctuation of the order of 0 to 1 p compared, okay, and then what happens is that when the torch is turned on, let's say that it's turned on here, what happens is that the current increases, okay, but in papers related to this experiment, the clock gave minus the variation of the current, so it's like a positive bump, it would be in reality at a
 negative bump, ok, something like this, and they repeated this on and off of the torsion several times, ok, and maybe sometimes there was no signal, the most part of the time there were peaks of the order of one peak on pair, ok, and sometimes there were two peaks of the order of two peak on pair and so on, so the interpretation of this pattern
 here is that in some cases the photoreceptor absorbs one photon, and this is the minimum job that determines when one photon is absorbed, sometimes it absorbs two photons and so we have a larger bundle, sometimes it absorbs zero photons and so nothing happens, ok, actually we see that it's slightly more complicated than that, but let's say that this is the intuition
 we will have by looking at the speech. Then this is the current as a function of time, ok, but what we can do, we can also take a different approach and let's forget about the time, just look at all the possible values of the currents that have been realized during this experiment and plot the histogram of these values of the current, ok, so in this way we will come to the distribution probability to get
 a certain value of the time, ok, and if we do this we find something like this, so these points are these data points, ok, this is more or less what happens, so we have this curve, so this is the distribution probability of the current, ok, we have this curve and this curve has sort of three bumps, a very low latency, but if we still decrease the
 density of the light maybe this third one is not even visible, if we increase the density maybe we see some other bumps, so actually the precise shape depends on the light intensity, ok, and we rationalize this behavior with a very simple model and we say ok, we know that the absorption process is a quantum process, so there is a priori probability to absorb or not absorb a certain
 number of photons, and this is a possible distribution, it is like this, where M is the mean number of the photon given at the intensity of the light, so this is proportional to the intensity of the torch.
 Then we also know that even in absence of this external signal there are fluctuations, so for example let's look at this time series in absence of any external stimulus, in that case the distribution of this signal will be a portion, this is the simplest thing that we can assume, it is also consistent with the data, so we said,
 in the case where there are zero photons, the distribution of probability is a Gaussian of the current, and this Gaussian will be peaked around the stationary value when we compare, ok, with a certain variance, and this variance will be 0,1, as we already discussed, and then there will be the normalization, ok, then we also assume
 that a similar functional form is also good when looking at the distribution probability of the current when there is just one photon absorbed. So we assumed that the distribution of the current when one photon is absorbed is again a portion, of course it will be
 centered on a different value. Because if you just look at this pattern here where you have one pump, on average the current will be around 20+1 compared. So there would be a different mean value and a different function that we wrote as the variance that we had before plus some increment.
 Very good and then we assumed the same functional form also for larger values of n okay where each time that we add one photon the increment of the mean carbon increases by one because we just saw from the experiments that all these bumps occur on a multiple scale of one thing okay and then we said okay let's assume this if we assume this what would be the resulting POI
 well the resulting POI will just be by using the probability formula it will just be the probability of getting a guy in presence of a certain number of photos by probability that that number of photos after it occurs okay and if we plug inside this POI this expression here
 and the gaussians for this mass here what we will get the prediction will be a term which is like this okay so this very simple scenario is perfectly consistent with the data okay so that's very nice okay and why is it like that you need to understand that formula here you need to remember
 each of these volumes here is a Gaussian okay and they are they are centered on different values of i so therefore for example let's plot to the Gaussian corresponding to zero volumes okay so this is this value here is e-station okay this is i-stationary plus i1 and so on okay so this
 this first Gaussian is a Gaussian that's centered on the variant e-station so it would be something like
 this okay with a certain variance okay then we would have another Gaussian okay and the other
 Gaussian would be one centered on i1 so let's say that here we have i1 we would have another Gaussian
 this other Gaussian would probably be a little bit broader okay because the variance probably is a little bit broader
 but i mean if you just draw Gaussian it would be something like this maybe a little bit broader okay
 but it's not like that why it's not like that because each Gaussian is weighted with this weight
 okay so what is this weight let's try to see p of n equal to zero which is the weight of this Gaussian here
 okay that would be what that would be e to the minus m that's okay so this is the weight of the first Gaussian
 okay then let's look at the weight of the second Gaussian p of n with n equal to 1 that would be e to the minus m
 m that's it okay so let's say that we are at very low light intensity remember that m is the mean
 value of absolute photon if we are very low light intensity this number is smaller than one okay so
 let's say that is that it is i don't know this is the smaller the lower is the intensity let's say
 that it is 10 to the minus one okay so this means that this second portion is weighted less than the first one
 so i should not write it like this i should weight multi-character by 10 to the minus one so this portion
 would be something like this okay because it is weighted without a lower weight and the same
 amount for m equal to the more okay because in this case some way plus e to the minus m
 m squared divided by two just look at that so it is the order 10 to the minus two actually
 10 to the minus three because that would be one so this would be even though it is centered
 on two i1 sorry i2 which is i stationary plus two this is i stationary plus one people pair this is
 the stationary plus plus two people okay so it's twice the distance from i stationary
 but it is even lower so it could be something like this okay so if we now draw the angle of
 all these curves we get this okay just precisely to the group okay
 thank you um so what does the how can we interpret this so um okay you need to think
 that the information that the receptor
 passes by to the other layers of cells is the current okay so somehow the value of the current
 should contain some information of the signal okay because this is the information that then it's
 passed on and that writes so when at the end of the last lecture i said okay
 then if this is the information that is passed by this current should be somehow
 should contain in effect for the way the information about the outside signal okay
 in particular the way that this current is transmitted and
 it's elaborated by the other layers of cells should be such that i may want to discriminate whether there is
 something outside of the cell there is light or there is no light and we commented about the fact that
 the certain values of the current come up clearly for example if the current is here okay if i take
 this value of the current clearly this value of the current can only correspond to zero photon
 okay so there is no light inside so it's an anonymous value of the current so this value of the current
 really has some precise information even though the signal is noisy because there are fluctuations
 everywhere I'm happy with this value of the current because I mean I can say this value of the current
 has a very clear meaning it means there's no light outside okay and again if I find the value of the
 current here okay that's the same thing okay I can associate this value of the current to the presence of
 life okay maybe if I have to decide it's one photo or two photos I mean I can think a little bit about that but clearly it's not zero photo because you see the distribution probability around the zero photo case is very fast from the value of the current that I consider okay however there are values of the current that are ambiguous okay so let's say for example that I take a value of the current which is here okay this
 the value of the current could correspond to the zero case the n equal zero case but it could also correspond to the n equal one case okay because this value lies in the support of the distribution probability of finding a certain value of the current in the zero case and in the one case these two portions okay so we can ask what does our photoreceptor do in this case we will
 see that from a more biological point of view we will see that later on okay but for the time being I asked you at the end of the last lecture what would you do okay if I give you this value of the current and I ask you there is light and there is light or there is no light what would you answer and the most of you said here I would answer no light if I take a value here I would answer there is light okay so now I would
 like to show you that the answer that today is actually the most reasonable answer so you perform this computation immediately just by looking at the drawing but we can mathematically find out that this answer this reply is precisely one that minimizes the error of the probability of committing an error of a mistake okay and then let's see how we can do that so a strategy
 one can adopt okay is the following we can say okay let's say that i simply decided that there is a threshold okay and i call this threshold theta that's the simple strategy of one can adopt
 okay so there is a threshold theta and this threshold is such that if i is larger than theta i say that there is light okay therefore n is larger than one okay and if i is smaller than theta i say there is no light okay so n q okay very good
 so what is it that i commit a mistake first of all given this strategy let's start when do i perform a mistake when i say that i say that n is equal to the larger than one n in reality
 okay n is equal to zero okay so this will mean a mistake okay likewise i say n equal to zero okay and in reality n is larger than one or equal to one
 so let's make things even simpler let's say that the low light intensity is so low of the light that i either have zero or one okay from n equal to two and above they are very red so i discover so here i can just equal this so now i want to compute the probability of making the mistake okay
 so i have two ways of making a mistake let's look at the first one i need to compute the probability that i say n=1 given that the true is that n=0 okay and the second case corresponds to the probability that i say
 n=0 and actually there is one more okay so how then i have to sum these two probabilities okay but first before summing that two probabilities because they are two different ways of performing that unstable okay let's express mathematically these two probabilities okay these two probabilities well if i use a threshold as a
 criterion to say yes or no this probability would be the integral from theta to infinity in the i of the probability to get a current i when n is equal to t okay because i say remember that the threshold is such that i say
 that there is there is light every time i is larger than tau so for every current larger than tau my criterion tells me that there should be some photon on the side okay so i have to sum over all these possibilities so there are all the possible values of i larger than the threshold i chose okay likewise the second case it will be the probability from theta to minus infinity
 to the i of t of i and equal to 1. I express these two probabilities in this formal way then the probability of making a step and making an error would be the sum of the two okay so it would be let's say the first one the integral let's write it formally first the probability of saying
 n equal to one condition to the fact that n equal to zero but then I have to do it like this and probability that actually n is equal to zero okay and then I need to sum the second the contribution okay
 which is the probability to say n equal to zero and one, three of them okay this is the probability of the probability data now this probability actually depends on the threshold that we chose okay and why is that because these two conditional probabilities depend on theta
 so these two functions this one and this one are functions of theta so let me put a small theta here to remember that these are functions of theta
 okay therefore also global probability is a function of theta okay very good therefore what can I say that the best strategy that I can use is the one that minimizes the error
 the probability of performing error therefore I wrote my probability of performing error it depends on this value of theta I just find the minimum of this probability so what do I do? I take the derivative of P with respect to theta and I set it P equal to 0.
 And in this way I will find the value of theta for which this condition is satisfied allows me to find the optimal choice for my pressure theta.
 Ok? Yes.
 In that expression we are fissing a soya and saying that the integral is the area of the caussian.
 I'm saying this, I mean I have a pressure and I say that every time that the signal is larger than the set, the distraction, I have light. Otherwise I don't have light.
 Clearly, if I set the seat at discretion 2 on the left, I perform a mistake because I would say that there is light in many cases where there are actually zero points.
 Likewise, if I set the seat at discretion 2 on the right, I would perform a mistake, an error,
 because there's a lot of values, there are a lot of values of the current which basically correspond to non-zero.
 So I need to choose the optimal value of expression.
 So let's try to see what is this optimal value of expression.
 Let's perform the double expression.
 So let's try to see what is this optimal value of expression.
 Let's do this.
 To be of theta, say M equals one.
 Position zero.
 We have N equals zero, but the same in the opposite expression.
 We have N equals zero, and we have N equals one.
 Okay, and this should be equal to zero.
 Okay, so now, the only thing is that we have theta is this.
 So let's take the derivative of this first expression.
 Let's go and see what is this first expression.
 This first expression is this one, okay.
 So I take the derivative, and if I take the derivative, what do I find?
 I find the minus pi of theta and equal to zero, okay.
 So this would be minus p of theta and equal to zero, p of m, okay.
 And for the other probability, okay, that's the other way around, so I will find the plus.
 p of theta m equal to 1, p of m equal to 3, okay.
 And this should be what it is, okay.
 And so what do I get, theta star, the condition that determines theta star is that p of theta m equal to 1,
 m equal to 0, p of m equal to 0 should be equal to p of theta m equal to 1, p of m equal to 1.
 And what is the value of the current that satisfies this condition?
 It's precisely this one.
 Because it is the crossing point of the two weighted notions, so it is precisely this.
 So the threshold would be here.
 Precisely as you said it the other day.
 So immediately your answer to the question was precisely to estimate the point where the probability of performing an error was the lowest one.
 Of course this is not the reasoning that the photoreceptor does.
 But it is just a way to tell you that there is a problem of ambiguity of associating the current with the outside reality.
 And that somehow the whole mechanisms of photoreception should be done.
 Okay, so now let's go back to this experimental figure and to the results of our experiments on a single photoreceptor.
 And let's combine them with what we know from the experiments of FMPN that were performed on O2MAS.
 Okay, if you remember, when we discussed these first experiments, we said that if you look at experiments performed on real persons,
 one would conclude that the probability to see is just the sum, okay, of the from n equal to k infinity, okay, of the probability of having n for other persons.
 Okay, this is, and this is awesome, okay.
 Okay, f is the mean number of photons absorbed by the whole retina, okay.
 Very, so this was the functional form that people realized was a good one in data experiments,
 and the values of these parameters that fit in the data corresponded to k equal to 6, okay.
 So if one would interpret this, one would say, okay I need at least 6 photons to trigger the perception of an external light, okay.
 So these were experiments performed on the single photoreceptors, okay.
 So now let's try to combine these experiments with the ones performed on the single photoreceptors, okay.
 So on the single photoreceptors, if you want to describe the probability to see, so this was probability to see given a section like M and M was proportional to this contribution here, this alpha here depends on the probability of absorption,
 it was not of photos are absorbed so this depends on the area of the target which in this case is directly.
 Very good, so this point let's try to see how we can write this probability to see in terms of the behaviour of the individual photoexemplators.
 So this probability to see in terms of the behaviour of the single photoexemplators would be the probability that the number of photons absorbed by photoexemplator 1 plus the number of photons absorbed by receptor 2 plus the number of photons absorbed by receptor N, if I assume that there are N photoexemplators on the retina,
 this should be larger or equal to 1, okay?
 If at least one photoreceptor absorbs a photon, then I should be able to see, in principle, okay?
 So basically what I'm doing here, I'm computing the probability, okay?
 Actually it's a cumulative probability but, I mean, the quantity that I'm dealing with is the probability with an observable, which is the total number of absorbed proton, which is the sum from i to n, the number of receptors of and i, okay?
 So I'm talking about the distribution probability of an aggregated variable, the sum of the variables relative to the individual photoreceptors, okay?
 And what I know is that photoreceptors are independent one of the other, they absorb the photons independently, one from each other.
 And I also know that each one of them follows across this one.
 P over I is possible, as we set many times.
 Okay, so this is equal to the E minus M, M and I divided by M.
 I'm assuming here that all the photoreceptors are precisely equal one to the other.
 Okay, so the mean value and I is equal to M for all photoreceptors.
 Okay, so each and I is a Poisson variable.
 All these Poisson random variables, they are independent because photoreceptors are independent.
 Okay, so I can look back at what I know from the theory of probability, the theory of random variables,
 and I remember the distribution of probability of this sum value of Poisson variables is itself a Poisson variable.
 and it is a Poisson variable where the mean is just the sum of the means of the individual Poisson distributions.
 So as we get that also in the top is a Poisson variable,
 so also the distribution of probability of the top is the sum,
 and it would be equal to e to the minus the average value of the dot,
 which is nothing else than the sum of m,
 so it would be nm,
 because all are equal.
 This m is nothing else than big m.
 Why is that?
 Because this commercial costum depends on the area of the target,
 and the area of the retina we can assume that it is basically the sum
 of the areas of the total sector, so this is also m and here I will get m to the end total
 divided by m total factoring, ok?
 very good, so if I follow strictly this argument
 if I follow this argument, then it will be to see
 it is not a guess that the probability
 that this end top is larger than equal to 1, ok?
 so it is the sum from end top equal to 1 to infinity
 n to the minus m, n to the end top, divided n to infinity
 ok, so that would be the resulting outcome of my computation
 ok, so if this was correct, ok, then you see I will find automatically that k should be equal to 1
 so there is an inconsistency ok, because experiments on full organisms say that minimum number of required photons should be k
 and here if I just assume that each photoreceptor is a perfect counter and that photoreceptors are independent
 automatically what I will get is that menthol should be equal to 1, so k should be equal to 1
 so there should be some place in this reasoning where I made some wrong assumptions
 and where is this wrong assumption?
 the wrong assumption is that each photoreceptor is a perfect count
 and why is that? because there is noise
 and precisely because of what we said the other day and we repeat it today
 it's not that each photoreceptor counts precisely every time a photon arrives
 to count a photon it should somehow have some threshold value
 because otherwise noise would induce a lot of false answers
 so this means that each photoreceptor, if there is for example 0 photon or 1 photon
 each photoreceptor should somehow rewaste this possibility
 by assuming exactly as you did before that there is a threshold
 so if we assume that something like this occurs
 remember this means that every time we sum
 we consider the probability to finding
 that if we look at the probability that each
 an individual photoreceptor counts mi photons
 this is not just e to the minus m
 m to the i divided by i factorial
 this would be the correct answer if the only fluctuations present were the fluctuations due to the quantum process of observation
 but since there is all the noise due to the fluctuations that we already saw before
 0-1p compared around the stationary values with all the other fluctuations around the other values
 one needs to take into account those fluctuations
 so the photoreceptor cannot say that this probability found this value
 it has to remodulate here by saying ok I really count the larvini and eye photons
 only if the current is larger than my threshold
 so there should be here a modulating factor that tells that my eye should be larger than the threshold for that value of the current
 okay? precisely as you did when you gave me the answer yesterday, the same kind of reason
 okay? so if this is the eye photoreceptor, this is the eye photoreceptor
 the eye photoreceptor at a certain point measures a change in current so that it has a certain current eye
 it will say that it has counted a photon only if the current is upon a certain pressure. Ok?
 So there will be this remodulating factor. And how is this remodulating factor?
 This remodulating factor, how will it be? Well, let's say that I look at a larger
 value of n, okay? Let's say that the photoreceptor just acts like it. It's very smart and it says
 that the threshold is here. It does this automatic threshold, okay? Then let's say, let's see
 what would this remodulating factor be for, for example, n i equal to 3, 3 photons, okay?
 remember that this is the distribution of 3 photons
 so you see, all these values of the carbon
 this means that when there are 3 photons
 the photoreceptor will have values of the carbon which are in this frame
 okay? because this is the experimental distribution
 this corresponds to 0 for 1 to the receptor, 1 to 3, sorry
 let's say that we look at 2 photons, okay? so if
 there are 2 photons, the current will be here
 so you see this threshold is well below
 the whole distribution, so this factor will be 1
 will be 1, okay? so your photoreceptor will perfectly
 count from 2 photons on, okay?
 what happens for n equal to 1? for n equal to 1
 well, it is not 1, this factor here
 but it is a very large factor because all these values
 of the current will correspond to a true
 this line, okay? so this will be
 for n equal to 1
 this factor will be not 1 but it will be large, okay?
 when n is equal to 0
 this factor here, this factor here will be even smaller
 okay? So the idea is that this weight here
 is the larger the smaller than, small n
 okay? So when you sum up all these
 contributions, the large contributions
 they are summed up as in the perfect counter case
 but the small contributions will be summed less. So it's like
 having less certainty of the lower values
 and this can effectively result in
 a larger value of k. Because this is just telling you
 to be sure to see you need a larger value of photons.
 Why? Because the smaller values are too noisy
 so you come back very early.
 So this is the argument that we can make
 to understand why these comments on the role of noise
 on single photoreceptors translate in the fact
 that Hecht and Piren got this formula
 but with a valid case which is not equal to one.
 It's not a demonstration because to have a demonstration
 what would we need?
 We would need to find the distribution of this quantity
 Assuming independence but assuming that each i is not distributed perfectly as a constant variable
 but by a constant variable moderated by this factor here
 So the computation would be slightly more complicated
 because we cannot immediately say that it's a sum of constant variables
 that began and taught the sum of constant variables
 these are all constant variables because they have this unique factor
 and the effect of this almost is that when you compute the distribution of a thought
 it's something similar to the sum of constant variables but with K larger than one
 so this is a hand-waving explanation of why you find here a threshold which is not one
 but this is not completely true and why it is not completely true because people did this computation that I am telling you about
 and they found okay that this would correspond to something like this but this gave people between 2 and 3
 okay so there would be a rounding up due to this noise present in the single photoreceptor
 okay but it would not be enough to explain why this gain is equal to 6
 okay so there should be some other phenomenon
 which is not already what we have described
 what is it that we have described
 we have described the fluctuations in the dark
 okay so we have described the fact that everything here has fluctuations
 okay the presence of these fluctuations
 remember that these fluctuations are the fact
 that tells you that here there are oceans and not delta functions
 okay so the effect of having this term here is due to the fact that there are oceans
 and the fact that there are oceans is due to these fluctuations here
 okay we will see later on now that these are fluctuations of thermology
 okay in the end but we will see that in details later
 so we took into account anyway the presence of these fluctuations
 but there should be something else so what is this something else?
 so this something else is what is called the dark noise
 okay
 and this again is related to something that we
 at a formal level we are at the soul
 in the theoretical part of the force
 and what is it? ok it's related to the fact
 it's related to the fact
 put this fact here
 first of all it's related to something that actually I didn't mention
 and the fact that I didn't mention
 that they in any way saw in the experiment is the following
 okay let's say that here the torch is set on and then on/off very quickly
 here is set on/off very quickly
 so I told you sometimes it's set on/off but nothing happens
 okay zero-fault nobs over there
 this is something that we already described
 but sometimes what also occurred is that in absence of any signal
 in absence of turning on the torch
 i don't think
 ok
 so there was no light outside
 but still i don't think of one people there
 ok
 so this is what is called dark noise
 namely the fact that your photoreceptor can behave
 as if there was a photon outside
 but there were no photos
 ok
 and this is due to what
 so i told you before
 so this is what is called the dark noise
 i told you at the beginning of my explanation of photoreception
 that photoreception is eventually due to this process
 there is a molecule which is called the retinol
 and we will go back to the retinol and look at it a little bit better later on
 but the point is that this retinol has a certain co-formation
 that is called C11
 it depends on how the nuclei are disposed in space
 it's on a plane, it's a molecule that lies on a plane
 without the main nuclei in a nice regular arrangement
 and then it gets the photon, so the photon is alive
 so here is the photon
 and the reticle absorbs this photon
 and it changes the structure
 and becomes what is called C-trans
 ok
 but this is a change of structure so it avoids energy
 ok
 and this is why a photon is required to perform this change
 however the photon from outside is not the only source of energy that the retinol gets
 and why is that?
 because the retinol is inside a protein which is the rhodopsin which is inside the cells
 and the cell lives in an environment at a certain temperature
 okay so all around the cell and not inside the cells there are for example water molecules
 there are other small molecules at temperature activities molecules they have their kinetic energy
 there is a random excitation due to the fact that as for our gramian particle there are continuous leakings
 ok and so the retinome is subjected to the thermal noise due to the fact that the system leaks at a finite temperature
 ok ok so you can imagine very schematically that the energy of your retinome
 this is the energy of your retinome ok let's say that I just plug here a coordinate x
 which is a collective coordinate of the position of the nuclei
 of course this is a multidimensional quantity
 but let me write it as an x for simplicity
 so what is the situation?
 the situation is that there is a stable state c11 ok
 and there is another state which is the c trans ok
 clearly this is the stable state, this is not the stable state otherwise the system would be there
 so there should be a value between them ok
 this is basically not, it's just a drawing but just to understand what happens
 so there is this state which is the energetically favored one, this other one ok
 which is a metastable state ok
 and either your system gets some energy from outside which is the photon
 and is able to transit to this other state here ok
 but there is another possibility and the other possibility we studied now
 and it is precisely a radius loop ok
 so we saw an example where we studied a particle inside a double weld potential ok
 and we said we would put that dilution type of particle here
 but then after some time it would be able just due to thermal fluctuation to jump from the other side
 ok
 this every system that is subjected to this double weld potential and to noise
 has a probability if it is placed here at t equal to 0
 to jump to the other area
 what is the problem? the problem is that usually this barrier is so large that your system basically never does
 ok? so in this case this dark noise is precisely something of this kind
 so let's say that here it is our retinal molecule
 ok? and then if we wait long enough it will jump on the other state
 if it performs this jump for the photoreceptor
 it's like having a sort of photon
 the photoreceptor does not know what caused the change in the retinal
 ok? so if it sees a change in the retinal
 the consequences of this change will be the same
 ok? so the current will change
 the membrane will change if the retinal performs this transition
 even though it is not caused by photon
 so we need to evaluate what is the probability from this problem
 ok? so people estimated that
 so we know that this transition
 the time for this transition we estimated
 we did the calculation ok? and we found that this is
 this is this is exponentially larger
 in beta and in the barrier so if the temperature is low
 and the barrier is large this can be a very very large number
 so we need to wait a huge amount of time
 so but now what is large and what is big depends on the system that we are looking at
 so we need to estimate this and we need to see what is this scale
 as compared to the scale of our system ok?
 so people estimated this quantity here
 doing experiments directly on the retinol
 they just looked at the retinol and just try to understand
 what was this number and actually what they concluded is the rate
 the rate of this transition which is just the inverse of the average time
 by definition ok? and they saw that this is
 of the order of one over one thousand
 years ok? or which is the same as saying
 that this is one thousand years ok?
 so this is my big number
 so if you take a retina
 you will need to wait one thousand years
 to get this transition
 so one would think
 ok, it's impossible
 I should never see this nerve noise
 so why is it that I see it?
 you see, because this is for one molecule
 but if there are many of such molecules
 then this rate
 or this time can be more reasonable
 ok? so let's see
 let's see
 let's do this combination
 so inside one rhodopsin
 remember that the rhodopsin
 the rods
 the photoreceptor rods
 are made like this
 and this is the rod part
 of the rod photoreceptor
 and there are some discs
 in this long part
 and on this disc there are these proteins
 ok, which are
 the rhodopsins
 and inside
 each of these proteins
 there are the regular rod proteins
 ok
 and inside
 one single photoreceptor
 there are
 ten to the nine
 prodopsins
 let's say that there is one retinal inside
 the chiropsin so there are ten to the nine
 retinal molecules
 ok
 so
 if we now want to understand
 the number of events
 this kind, the number of transition
 events that there are
 per second in one
 receptor, come on in one retinal
 in one receptor, what we need to do
 we need to take the rate
 which is the number of events per single molecule
 per single molecule and multiply by the number of molecules
 ok, so we need to multiply this by 10 to the 9
 ok, so this is the global number of events per second
 that I would get in the whole photorescence
 so let's write down this
 the rank is 1 over 1000 years
 so let's write it in seconds
 ok, 1000 is 10 to the 3
 now I need to write down the number in seconds in 1 year
 and we're going to do a compilation
 it is 3
 10 to the 7 approximately
 ok, and then I need to multiply by 10 to the 9
 ok
 and this number here
 which is one third basically
 so it's on the order of 0 to 3
 ok
 so this is the number of events per second
 so it's the probability of getting an event
 and it's not so small
 it's one third
 ok
 so the rate
 the rate of getting
 a transition event
 per one photo sector
 due to a fake transition
 ok is one term
 so it's pretty large actually
 ok
 it's pretty large
 so actually if
 everything
 would be like this
 we should actually see many more
 of these dark noise events
 and the photo receptor
 would be very efficient
 ok what saves us
 we will talk about this later on
 what saves us is that
 This
 is a proportionality constant
 but here there is a
 microscopic time scale
 exponential as no dimension
 there should be something outside this
 with the dimension of a time
 which is a microscopic time scale
 and this is also very small
 very large for the time
 so it's in versus very small
 so actually the number
 of dark noise events
 is much smaller than that one
 it is not so small
 that we cannot see
 that's why in fact we see
 sometimes we see
 that there is a bundle
 even in absence of light
 this is what is called the darkness
 excuse me
 3 to the
 10 to the 6
 where the numbers
 10 to the 9
 is the number of
 molecules
 inside a single receptor
 yes
 this is the number of years
 and this is the second in one year
 ah ok
 ok
 so this is
 this is the number
 of retinome
 and therefore
 retinome moleglutes
 this is
 second in one year
 ok
 and this is the number
 of years
 very good
 and so this is
 this is
 I told you this
 to tell you another experimental part
 that was seen in the experiment
 that I haven't mentioned before
 and those who understand
 why actually since there is this
 additional noise term
 because this is a noise term
 ok since there is
 this additional noise that's
 why actually if I want to be sure
 if I want to be sure
 to have seen I need
 to take k in another
 otherwise I would make a lot of mistakes
 ok
 because when another photon
 is very small
 when it is one
 the set can have one effect
 even though
 there is no photon outside
 so when
 small numbers
 can be very easily
 confused with noise
 ok
 so I need to see at least a few more
 to be sure that there is really something else
 ok
 at least
 if your system works well
 you should set the threshold a little bit larger
 because otherwise you would make a lot of mistakes
 ok
 ok
 and actually what happens is that
 they did experiments
 in TOTS
 because in TOTS
 this
 this factor here is smaller
 and
 this factor here is smaller
 so dark noise is larger
 and indeed
 what they found was that
 TOTS make
 much more mistakes
 so what they did in the experiment was that
 they put a TOD
 inside the marina
 and
 just in front of the TOD
 there was a small dish with food
 ok
 but I mean the TOD
 could not see the food
 unless there was light
 ok so they performed the same
 experiments that they did on the photoreceptor
 turning on and off a torch
 on the
 on the dish with the food
 ok
 and every time
 the light was on
 just grabbed
 its tongyu
 ok
 but what they could see
 was that the toad actually
 just tried to catch something
 a lot of times
 they just looked at the tongyu
 ok
 they counted how many times
 and when they just
 put out the tongyu
 and they did it a lot more times
 as compared to when the torch was turned on
 ok
 so this was a weight and then they performed measurements
 right so they really verified that there is this effect
 that the noise would be expected
 ok
 so now we have investigated the behavior of the photoreceptors
 in the presence of very low light intensity
 ok
 and what we saw was that there is noise but somehow
 the photoreceptor
 somehow we will go back to this later on
 somehow they are able to cope with this noise
 and perform well in the light intensity in this space
 now what I would like to do is to discuss the opposite case
 ok
 to discuss the case of very large intensity
 we will try to ask the same thing
 the same kind of question
 if and how
 our photoreceptor works efficiently
 even in a regime of large intensity
 ok
 so people performed experiments
 even on this case
 and for these experiments instead of measuring
 the current through the membrane
 of the photoreceptor
 they measured the potential difference
 across the membrane
 it's the same thing
 since the experiments
 and I will talk about experiments
 at the end of my argument
 since the experiments
 with intramembrane potential
 now let's talk about
 the intramembrane potential
 so let's say that we performed the same kind of experiments
 indicating before
 very low light intensity
 we measure the intramembrane potential instead of the target
 we will find a very similar factor
 so if we measure this
 v of t
 as a function of t
 turning our torch on and off
 we will find as in that case
 a fluctuating signal
 and then when
 I turn on the light
 this will have a certain bump
 and then go back
 to the stationary value
 where I mean
 the torch is turned on for milliseconds
 so a very short time
 ok?
 and then you have this bump
 and then it goes back
 to the stationary value
 and then if you repeat
 it's a very similar pattern
 to the one in the car
 very good
 and both for the
 attention at the carmen
 this time scale
 is of the order of seconds
 one second let's say
 this is just
 we will go up to this time scale
 so the torch is turned on
 for a very short
 much smaller time
 then we have this increase
 and then it goes back to the station as well
 okay
 very good
 so this is where I am going to live intensity
 so now here I have the light on
 then it is off
 and maybe after a while I turn it on again
 and then I will get another bump here
 maybe always one of this height
 and then maybe another time
 here there is another signal
 it will be a little bit larger and so on
 okay
 this is a low light intensity
 okay so let's say that we have this
 minimal time
 okay
 and then I can have larger pumps
 if two photons are absorbed at the same time
 okay
 so let me for simplicity
 let's assume that I can represent this increase in the potential with a function
 this will be a certain T minus Ti
 it's a function that is centered on this Ti period
 it's a particular function
 okay
 very good
 or we can just call Ti the time at which the absorption starts
 that's not important
 the important thing is that we can associate a certain function to what happens with one function
 okay
 so now let's assume that we look at a different situation
 we look at a situation where intensity is very large
 large like intensity
 what does this imply?
 it implies that if you look at a small interval of time
 if intensity is very large and if it is continuous for example
 I don't have a torch which is on and off
 I have continuous light
 in an event time interval I can have absorption of 1, 2, 3 photos
 which are absorbed at a slightly different distance of time
 ok?
 so let's say that in this case
 if this is the time axis
 maybe I have a photo that is absorbed here
 a photo here, over here
 all in the same interval
 so that I have to combine many of these
 elementary events
 one with the other
 because they were so very close
 so here maybe I would have
 many photons arriving
 and here maybe much more and so on
 so in general the pattern
 of the increment rate of measure
 will be a trivial pattern
 due to the fact that many of these events
 occur one before the other
 at very close times
 so now I would like to start this situation here
 and I would like to understand
 when my system performs in this situation
 so to set up the problem
 I need a little bit to change the kind of question
 that I ask myself because at low light intensity
 performing well means understanding
 whether there is light or there is no light
 discriminating between
 something is happening outside that is dark
 this is the problem at low light intensity
 at large intensity
 the problem is a bit different
 because clearly there is light
 the question is not to understand whether there is light or not
 the problem is to understand
 if I have a light pattern
 with a varied intensity
 whether my system is able to adequately react
 to a changing light signal
 ok
 so now I will assume that the external light intensity
 is a signal that changes in time
 ok
 which means that the rate of absorption of my photons
 is a quantity that changes in time
 ok
 so I will
 I will generically write this signal
 as a constant value that sets more or less
 the average intensity of the signal
 ok
 plus a factor that truly depends on that
 so this COT is what modulates
 the outside light
 ok
 so let's see
 you can think that you are moving
 in an external environment
 and as you move
 it's right that you perceive changes in time
 because different things
 happen in front of you
 so this COT
 is what modulates what is happening in front of you
 ok
 and your photoreceptor
 your photoreception
 works efficiently
 if you are able to efficiently track
 the changes in COVID
 in this COT
 so this will be now
 our problem to see
 what's the response of the photoreceptor
 to a changing signal
 of light intensity
 ok
 so
 at the mathematical level
 this would be
 this would mean
 to understand how vehicle changes
 in presence of a volume
 0
 ok
 and so to understand
 if our system works efficiently
 what we do is first to compute
 the average value of V of D
 given
 this external signal
 ok
 and what we will also
 compute
 are the statistical
 situation of V
 in absence of the signal
 ok
 in absence of
 the signal
 so and why we are doing that?
 because this is noise
 ok
 so your perception
 if you are in
 an homogeneous environment
 homogeneous light outside you
 ok
 your perception will not be a deterministic
 perception of the outside signal
 there will be fluctuations
 ok
 if what's outside you changes in time
 you will perceive a change
 but if this change
 that you perceive is of the same
 order of fluctuations
 your perception is very bad
 ok
 it's the same thing that we already encountered
 with camera reception
 you perceive efficiently
 changing in the outside world
 in the outside environment
 only if the real changes
 of the signal are larger
 than the noise to which
 you are subject
 in absence of changes
 ok, so we will try to do
 exactly the same thing that we need
 for chemoreception
 compute the average value
 of the perception
 namely the inter-membrane convention
 in presence of a varying
 signal
 where C of T
 is different
 from zero
 okay, and then we go
 to this one here
 when C the contrast is equal to zero
 and this is noise
 so this is the real signal
 and then we will make the ratio between the two
 to understand whether the signal to noise ratio is good
 and whether our system performs efficiently or not
 so this is the aim, our next objective
 ok, very good
 but then we first need to compute these two quantities
 and in these two quantities I took some averages
 but you can ask, averages or what?
 ok, then what are the averages?
 let's say that we have an outside light signal
 your photoreceptor absorbs the photons
 but since the absorption process is stochastic
 because it is a quantum phenomenon
 the photon can be absorbed in different distance of time
 and the global number of photons can vary
 ok, so let's imagine that we look at our photoreceptor
 and the behavior of our photoreceptor, this is Ducky
 ok, and let's say that we look at a certain time window
 ok, then what happens?
 there are a certain global number of photons that are absorbed during this time
 for example I can have a photon absorbed here
 a photon absorb here, a photon absorb here, a photon absorb here, a photon absorb here, another here, another here. Okay? But where are these absorption types? It's a wrong variable. Okay? So let's say that this is t1, this is t2, this is t3, this is t4, this is t5 and so on. These are the absorption types. So we call it pi, the absorption types.
 And of course I can have a different number of photons that are absorbed in this type, so we call n the number of absorbed photons.
 These are two random variables. So the distribution, the average performing here is precisely and the distribution is random variable.
 So to perform this average we need to understand what is this distribution problem.
 So let's try to start the computation now, maybe we will blend it.
 Okay so therefore this distribution here, this is an average, but for the distribution of what?
 The probability to get the absorption of times d1 pn, given that there are L absorbed photon overall, okay?
 And then once I establish this over a dv, once I complete averages with this probability, I have to sum over all possible values of n.
 Okay, so now I know what is the distribution probability over each end of the average, now I need to specify what is the quantity that I average.
 Okay, so the quantity that I average is B of t. Okay, what is B of t?
 B of t is the intramembrane potential when I have an alongside c.
 So it could be the V that I have, let me call it 0.
 The one that I have in absence of any external signal, any external light.
 Because as we said very many times, all the carbon and the potential fluctuates even in absence of light.
 Okay.
 And then, as I told you before, when there is light and large intensity,
 I will have some pattern which is due to the fact that there are many of the elementary events that sum up.
 Okay.
 So I will need some.
 Okay.
 Let's say if you...
 I need to sum over all terms of the photon,
 the change due to each individual photon.
 Okay.
 So this is my V of T.
 Okay.
 So I know what is my V of T.
 And I know that this V of T depends on these random variables.
 Okay.
 So I need to take the average of these random variables.
 So this is what I will do now.
 Okay.
 Very good.
 So before doing this computation, I want to write down explicitly what is this.
 Okay.
 Okay, so what I want to say explicitly what is PDT1M, given the level.
 Okay, what is the probability of getting this absorption of these models precisely at those times?
 So to do that, it is convenient to divide my time axis in small intervals.
 Ok?
 So I just discretize.
 Ok. You know what to do.
 Ok.
 So I discretize and I will do the drawing again.
 This is my time.
 I discretize this small equal intervals.
 And then what do I say, I just call them, I number the intervals.
 Ok, so the intervals are k equal 1, 2, 3, 4.
 And then, each one of them, let's say that I take each interval, large tau.
 Ok?
 The tau, sorry.
 The tau is the length of each interval and I call it tau i, the middle point of each interval.
 So this is tau 1 and this will be 1, 2, 3.
 This will be tau 4 and so on.
 I just enumerate all these discrete events.
 Okay?
 And then at some point I will have the absorption events.
 So let's say that here I have an absorption event.
 So this is T1, the first absorption event.
 Okay?
 And maybe here I have another absorption event.
 This is T2.
 So I am indicating the time variable in tau and the events with the T.
 The absorption events in T.
 Maybe I have another one here.
 This is T3 and so on.
 Okay?
 So now, I want to understand what is this probability.
 So to have one absorption event in T1 and one in T2 and one in T3, what do I need to have?
 I need to have no events occurred here, here, here, here, here.
 Okay, then one event occurred here and no events here, here, here, here and so on.
 Okay?
 So since the absorption of one photon is a possible variable, okay?
 I know that the probability of having N equal to zero is equal to what?
 It will be equal to E and general P of N is the usual Poisson distribution.
 So it will be E to the minus, let me call it an average, then we will see what is this.
 This is an average, an average in the N divided by F of N, okay?
 So now we need to specify what is this, an average.
 An average is the mean number of absorbed photons for the time interval that I'm moving, okay?
 Because in principle, the average number of absorbed photons depends on the length of the interval.
 The larger is the interval, the more the meters of photons, okay?
 So remember that in general this by definition is equal to the rate by the length of the interval I'm looking at.
 So let's say that I look at each one of these small intervals here.
 So this n would be the rate multiplied by the photon. Do you agree?
 However here there is a slightly more complication because we said that the rate changes with time.
 So the rate is not always the same in this time that I am considering.
 It changes from time to time. So this will be something that depends on time and this will be R of time.
 So the probability of absorbing zero photon or one photon or whatever in each one of these intervals will change with time.
 It's not always the same, okay?
 So now that I know how I have to express this, I know how to re-write more explicitly this Poisson distribution.
 This Poisson distribution will be equal to what?
 Will be equal to E to the minus R of tau, so this is the probability of getting N absorbed photon in the internal tau, okay?
 It will be equal to E to the minus R of tau del tau, okay, multiplied by R of tau del tau in the end, divided by F of tau.
 Okay?
 So now let's say that I chose my interval de tau so small that the probability of getting more than one photon inside that interval is basically zero.
 Okay?
 So the only two probabilities different from zero are the P of n equal to zero and the P of n equal to one.
 Okay?
 It's very unlikely that two photons are absorbed in the same time interval.
 Since I can choose the tau how I like, I can always reproduce this condition.
 Okay?
 So now once I stated these two parts, I can now compute the probability of this quantity here,
 because what do I need to happen is that zero photons are absorbed here, zero photons are absorbed here and so on,
 and then one photon is absorbed here.
 So let's try to stop writing this down.
 So what I need to do is that I should have e to the minus r of tau1 de tau.
 Here I need to have n equal zero.
 n equal zero means that this is one and this is one.
 Okay?
 And then I need to write down the same thing for the second interval and so on up to this interval here.
 Okay?
 e to the minus r, this would be t1 minus theta, theta.
 Okay?
 Because this, this, this to here is t1 minus theta, the step before.
 Okay?
 And then here I need to compare the probability of absorbing one problem.
 So I need the p of n equal to 1.
 Ok?
 So I need the p of n equal to 1.
 This means that I have the exponential.
 I have this and the n factorial is 1.
 Ok?
 So I should write p to the minus r of t1 deto.
 Ok?
 But then I need to add r of t1 deto.
 Ok?
 So if you remember that this deto was correlated was the one of t1 let me do the t1.
 Ok?
 So I just use this.
 Ok?
 Just to remember that the small increment relates to that time there.
 Ok?
 And then I need to continue.
 Ok?
 So I need to count all these intervals here.
 Ok?
 So E to the minus R T1 plus D2 and then all the intervals up to the one E4, E to the minus R T2 minus D2 and then I have E D2 and then I have E to the minus R of T2 D2 and then I have R of T2 then T2.
 OK? And I keep going. And what is this that I have already completed? This is the probability of finding all the photons in the right intervals. OK? So this would be P T1 Tn, given N, that T1, that Tn.
 OK? I can keep going on and I arrive up to the last increment. OK? Do we agree with this? Is this clear? OK. And why did I put the increments here? Because T are continuous variables, therefore this is a probability density and this is a probability.
 OK. This is not probability, it is a probability density. This is probability. OK. OK. So I can just wrap up on this expression here because you see that the exponential appears for all the intervals. OK.
 The exponential, every small interval here has the exponential function. Both of the intervals where there is no absorption and the intervals where there is absorption. OK. So I can put them all together because this is a product of exponentials. Therefore the product is just the exponential of the Sun. OK.
 So this would be what? It would be e to the minus the sum overall of the intervals. OK. Of what? Of r of 2k the total. OK. And then only for the intervals where absorption occurs I will have this other factor too.
 So we have r of t1, r of tn, the t1, the t1, the t1. OK?
 So I computed my rowing here.
 OK.
 Excuse me, sir, the t is equal to the t1, I lost the passage.
 For this, the tau k, I mean, it's equal to the t.
 It's not important, it's just a sound bar, whatever you call it, however.
 OK.
 Of course, in the limit where I take these small intervals here infinitesimal,
 this sound becomes an integral.
 OK?
 I can send the Toe to zero and the Sun becomes an integral.
 So, in the end, my P of T1, Tn, given n.
 OK?
 This will be given by P to the minus the integral of the time window which I am looking at.
 The Toe out of Toe.
 And here we have R of T1, R of T.
 Very good.
 So now let's compute this R of T.
 Now we have to distribute the probability, we can compute the R of T.
 So our D of T will be given by the integral of the T1 of the N of what?
 The integral of T of T1 of N of my function VT.
 VT is just V0 plus sum over I.
 V0 to be non-VT and VT.
 So maybe I have the zero.
 Otherwise I have the same syllable.
 Okay.
 And this is in the case where N photons are absorbed.
 But then I have to sum over all the possible number of absorbed photons.
 So I need to sum from N equal zero infinity.
 But then I need to consider that photons are indistinguishable.
 So I need to put a one more n factorial here due to the indistinguishability of photons.
 So now I know everything, I know this p and I can do this computation.
 So let's plug inside what I already know.
 Okay, so this will be sum of zero infinities.
 Then I want one over n factorial.
 And then what would I get?
 Integral 31n, okay?
 And then I will get 30 to the minus integral in the top, I of top, okay?
 I of T1 here, I of Tm, okay?
 And then I would get the kingdom plus some I, and then I would get the kingdom plus some I.
 Okay, so now I can actually, if there are zero photons absorbed, okay?
 Clearly these are all zero, okay?
 There is just the exponential factor here.
 Okay, let's do this, let's do this test.
 Let's first compute this quantity here, when there are at least one photo.
 So this n is at least one, okay?
 We want to take this, that the term n equals zero plus the term n equals zero.
 Okay?
 Okay.
 Very good.
 Okay.
 So let's try to perform first the case where there is this one.
 So for generic n, larger than c.
 Let's go to this one video.
 Okay.
 So we first have the P tilde contribution.
 Okay.
 Let me wait.
 Is this correct?
 Yes.
 So, okay.
 We will get P tilde.
 Okay.
 And then we will get integral of the t i r of t i to the n.
 Okay.
 I am looking at this part here.
 So you see, for each r I have an integral.
 Okay.
 So the integral are always, they are all the same.
 It was an integral over the positive values of t.
 And so I have just the same integral to the n.
 And then I get to the exponential value.
 Sorry, with this last one passage, aren't we saying that every time the c of t in the rate of time dependency would be the same in every...
 No, no, no, because it's the integral that's the same. This is an integral. You are integrating over all times.
 Yeah, no, in the previous vector, in the integral with the i and the r. Yes. Yes, this also you are integrating over all the...
 But taking all of them and say that it's all the same object. No, here you have integral that t1 r of t1, let's say from 0 to t.
 And then you have integral from 0 to t2, the t2 r of t2.
 These two integrals are equal because you are integrating. Once you integrate t1 and t2 become two integration variables.
 So I'm not at the same time. Yeah, but I was trying to say that r, the integral, are we sure they are the same for both of the integrals?
 Because we have the c of t that should be... This is the same function. It's a function.
 It's a function. It's the same function. But once you integrate the function over the same window, it's two integrals over the same.
 No, no. It's mathematics.
 It's true that R of T changes, but if you integrate over all the variation integrals, you get the same number.
 Okay?
 Okay, so you get this.
 And this is this part here.
 Okay?
 And then you get the other part.
 Okay?
 This always happens to do.
 Arto.
 Okay?
 And then for the other part, what do we get?
 We get this integral.
 So let's look at this.
 We have to put the sum outside of the integrals.
 So we will get sum i equals 1 of n.
 And then we will get integral the t1 of n.
 R of t1, R of n.
 And then we will get b0, b minus the i.
 Ok?
 Let's just put the sum outside the integrals.
 Ok?
 Back.
 So now let's look at this integral here.
 One of these n times will be equal to the other.
 And the other ones will be different from the other.
 Ok?
 So this integral here will be integral t1 r of t1, integral t2 r of t2 and so on.
 And then at some point there will be integral t1 r of t1 v0 t minus t1.
 So n minus 1 of this integral will be integral of the rate.
 And just 1 will be the integral of the rate multiplied by the potential bump.
 Ok?
 So this will be equal to what?
 Let me put this in front of everything.
 Here we have the tilde, this integral.
 And then the i, R of the i, to the n.
 And then I will have this second contribution which would be sum over i from 1 to n of what?
 So we have the integral, the t, tk, let me use another sign, r of tk to the n minus 1, okay, this one's here, which are n minus 1, okay.
 And then we have, what is it, this integral of t_i, r of t_i, d t0 minus 1, okay.
 Okay.
 Good.
 Okay, so what I need to do now, I need to summarize all these things.
 Okay, so let's do that.
 I need to go to the term with n equal to 0, okay, so the term with n equal to 0, n equal to 0,
 this means that there is no this term here, okay, the term is n equal to 0, it seems to be e to the minus integral to the top, part of the top, right?
 Right, okay, because there are no times in this case, okay, so these are all, there are no r's here, there is only the term with the exponential, okay, no photons anywhere, okay.
 Okay, so this is an interval of my reservation time and I just want to point out that this term is exponentially increasing in the time window while you're doing that, okay, so this is a term that goes to zero when I look at the large window of time, okay, so this is a subliving term.
 I need to take care of the other ones, okay, so let's try to look at this term here, okay, so I need to compute.
 M equal to 1 to infinity, okay, and then I have e to the minus integral 0 to t to the tau, and I have 1 over n factorial, okay, in front, and then where I would get, I would get,
 is integral the T of R of T here. Okay? So I notice, what do I notice? I notice that this, okay, this is almost the expansion of an expansion. Okay?
 What is, I mean, I just missed one term and what I missed is the, sorry, I just missed the zero term. So I just thought, plus, which was basically the 1% before.
 So instead of saying that this was exponential, I went up in t.
 Okay? And so that, in this way, if I put these two terms together, what I have is e to the minus integral from zero to t, the tau out of the tau.
 And I have the sum from zero to infinity, one barat factorial of this quantity here, integral of the t, r of t, so I put this on the left side, again, you like this.
 Okay, good. But this is just an exponential.
 Okay, so this would be e to the minus integral, and the tau out of tau, multiplied by e to the plus integral, then t r of tau.
 So these are integration variables, so these two exponentials are the same, okay?
 So I was wondering about the complete discussion, where is the phenomena of the dark noise, also in the event of the zero tension or absorption, because we have created that object that is the probability of emission, but in that probability we are not answering.
 We are not answering directly the dark noise.
 We are assuming that they are perfect counters. We are disregarding thermal and dark noise in design.
 Okay, so basically it should be something, especially for 10 equal to zero, that is the false photon absorbing that is made by the dark noise.
 Yeah, but we are disregarding. We assume a perfect counter.
 It's an hypothesis to do the validation, otherwise we do not. But you will see that it works well.
 You are right, there should be other sources of fluctuations that we have to do.
 Okay? Very good.
 And so we dealt with this first part here, and so we got a bit in.
 Okay?
 So let's write down the first part of our solution, but then our time is off.
 Okay?
 So let me just write the final point to where we arrived so we can from next Tuesday we can deal with the other piece.
 So what we completed is that we completed this contribution here, so we have a first part which will just be yielded.
 And then we need to complete the second contribution and the second contribution is the sum over n over 1 over n factorial.
 Okay, and then what we have, this is from 1 to infinity and we need to compute this integral here, we have always this.
 And then we have another integral which is the integral over t1, tm, over, I just erased that.
 It was just this, the t, r of t, min off to t minus pi, this goes to m minus 1.
 Right?
 It was this.
 For the, this one, right?
 No.
 No, no, sorry, sorry, sorry.
 We have just, this to the n minus 1, and then we have just 1, t over t i, r of t i, t not t minus 2.
 Okay.
 Okay?
 And so we need to go with this.
 Next time we will do the computer.
 Try to do this.
 Okay?
 It's very similar to the other parts.
 Try to do this and then we will do that again.
 Okay?
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much.
