 I will send an email, okay?
 All right, let's start, as you have asked, Wednesday, okay?
 Settimana prossima, martedì, no, no, no, mercoledì alle 4, c'è il seminario di Bialek, okay?
 Quindi, invece di fare lezione, voi andate al seminario, okay?
 Il seminario è per conversi, credo, devo confermarli, manderò poi un'email e il seminario viene annunciato e voi riceverete l'email per l'annuncio del seminario.
 E poi, a questo punto ci rivediamo, io non so se riesco ad esserci nel politico perché mi hanno messo un apportamento medico, non so se riesco a ricordarlo,
 è un tema che in realtà due anni fa lui ha fatto delle lezioni, questa volta aggiungerà dei risultati però ha già fatto un ciclo di quattro lezioni due anni fa sullo stesso tema,
 e poi ci rivediamo il martedì successivo, ok? No, ci rivediamo venerdì della prossima settimana perché martedì non c'è lezione,
 non c'è il seminario che non vi facciamo questo, ok? Ok, so let's start where we arrived last time and everyone we were discussing the Leasing model, ok?
 This model is a model from the Trevann-Mannickes, ok?
 Where the most general form of Hamiltonian is this one, ok?
 And last time we tried to start to solve this model in the link field of affirmation.
 I will do the link field approximation, the meaning of the link field approximation is that you have your spins on the black case, ok?
 And this term here, ok, which will be rolled as some rolled pairs of the interaction matrix.
 And this is only for interacting spins, which in the case of a square lattice are, if I consider this as the spin I, it interacts with the first radios, which are this ball one, ok?
 And so NIJ is different from zero for this, this, this and this, but if I take another side of the lattice, this NIJ will be zero, because these are not the same.
 We can rewrite this as this, so this term here, we can rewrite it as one half, because the sum of the pairs is one half and the sum of the different indices, so we can rewrite this in this way, okay, and so you see once you rewrite this in this way, it's like having a spin which interacts with the field,
 the term is just analogous to this one, but instead of having a field HI, you have the field which is due to the neighbors, okay, so you can see this term here as a term where each spin interacts with the instantaneous field caused by its neighbors, why am I telling instantaneous, because these are the
 spin variables and this is where once you perform an average of a spin configuration, this blue two is in this blue two is, okay? So when I say instantaneous, I mean that this is the field generated by the neighbors in a specific configuration, okay? So what we did within the midfield approximation was to change this term here and approximate this term here, which is a fluctuating term,
 this is the physical mean. And we did it mathematically, but the meaning is that. Okay? And that's why it's called midfield approximation. Because we are taking into account the effect of interactions, namely the effect that neighbors tend to align the spin towards them, but we are taking into account this effect in an average way. So we are disregarding the correlations between the situations of the spin in the balance. Okay?
 So that's the meaning of this approximation and once we did this approximation, we could rewrite the Hamiltonian in an approximate form. This is an approximation. Okay? We are counting up some terms.
 So, and the effect is that we get this mean of an infinite Hamiltonian, which we can write like this. So, we can write it just as a term of a state interacting with a field, but this field now is an effective field.
 And it will have two contributions, the contribution to the external field, if there is an external field, plus the contribution of the naples, approximated in an average way.
 So, here we will get J, sum of J, naples of E, let's say J equal naples of I, okay, as J.
 Sorry, no, no, no, sorry, the most general way is this, okay, so we are taking into account with the average effect of naples and then when we assume that the field is homogeneous, okay, if we assume a child equal to age for every spin,
 okay, the system is completely isoglopic so there is no reason to assume that each spin is on average different from the others and so in this case all the local monetization are equal to the per-size-not-average monetization and so in this case
 we are looking at this simple case here where the system is homogenous and we look at an homogenous field this is the generalization where the field is sign-dependent but we will do all our computations in the simple case
 which is the one that we looked in the case during the last lecture
 so the last one we did so let's look at this simple case
 in this field so the midfield and midtonia reads in this way
 ok very good so once we redraw the midtonia in this way the measure factorizes
 ok so if we want to complete the measure of our configuration let's remember that the configuration is given by the value assumed by each spin on each side of the lap
 this in general is this one this is the total function ok and when we assume the mean feature approximation since the Hamiltonian determines the weight of this measure is an exponential of a sum
 this means that it is the product of different explanations so the measure factorizes so in this field the P becomes equal to the product over all the sides of a distribution of probability of an even side ok so this is of the whole set this is of a single side
 and this is equal to e to the minus plus theta Jhzsi over a certain partition function on the side i ok we looked at that last time so we don't have to cheat all the combinations
 and so exploiting this part mainly the factor factorizes because it means that we can look at each side individually ok and then sum up when we need to compute.
 ok so this means that for example we can compute the partition function on the side i we computed that the other day and we found that this is equal to 2
 the pervolent cosine of beta edge-effective and we can compute the magnetization on each side i which is the average value on the side and since we are assuming the constant field we find explicitly by doing the computation that this just depends this is equal to all the sides this is equal to the global per-side magnetization
 ok and this is equal to the hyperbolic tangent of beta H. ok so we got an equation for the magnetization for this system and let me remind you that the other day we discussed the fact that the magnetization is the order parameter for this system so it is the parameter that tells us whether the system is ordered or not
 okay very good so this is where we arrived at the other day we got this equation here and the last sentence with which I left you is that actually this is not the explicit solution of the problem and why is that it is because H effective which is this one contains itself M okay so this is actually an equation for them
 we need to solve this equation and we will find out okay so now let's try to solve the equation so we need to solve this equation here let me write explicitly what is the field so we have a term βh and then we have a term βjz so this is the equation that we need to solve okay very good so we will start now by solving the equation
 in the simplest possible case no it's not the simplest okay in one of the cases maybe it's useful to look before looking at the case that interest us to look at a simpler case so let's look at the case where we don't have interruptions so j is equal to zero okay so j is equal to zero okay
 if j is equal to zero we don't have interruptions and this already gives us the x-precited solution because there is no error okay so let me write this here which is something that we can keep in mind later on so what happens when I don't have interruptions I just have a step up here okay so we have already this procedure already gives us the x-precited solution in this case okay
 okay so this is j equal to zero no interaction and let me plot m as a function of the temperature let's say or as a function of the field let's start by looking at the function as a function of the field okay so this is an hyperbolic tangent so if the field is zero M is zero okay if the field increases it will increase up a template to one for very large field
 if the field is positive and the opposite happens if the field is negative okay so the physical meaning of this is obvious if you have no interaction and you put the field every spin will try to align with the field and the stronger is the field the stronger will be this tendency to align which is disturbed by knots of course okay in actually what I should put here
 what I should put here is beta-h because you see that the perbolic tangent depends on beta-h so in this way we see at the same time the behavior of the temperature of the field so what fixes your magnetization is how strong is the field let me write it in this way how strong is the field compared to the temperature which is the quantifier of the environment otherwise okay
 so the stronger is the field with respect to this scale the stronger will be the alignment okay but there is nothing peculiar with this the magnetization varies very smoothly there is no transition here okay this is not this is a scenario where I have no phase transition and the system just varies in a very smooth way between negative magnetization and positive magnetization between zero and zero
 and the reason why I have positive magnetization is that everybody follows the field ok so it's like a flock of genes where you have the leader it is known that there is a leader which is you know they form a V formation these birds and there is one in front it goes and all the other ones are followed ok
 it is an extended produced order ok very good very good and now let us look on the other hand of the other situation which I will look here I will consider here where the field is zero and interactions are different from zero then we will look the case where both of them are present ok please notice what thing
 before i go to this computation that when j is zero actually the midfield approximation is exact ok because the term where we approximating things is the term with the j so if j is zero the midfield approximation is exact so the true measure really factorizes and each spin ups individually and this is physically this means that if we have no interruptions the only thing that we need to refer
 to is the external field and each field each spin decides whether it aligns and what is the degree of alignment with the external field without talking to the other ones there is no talking to the other ones okay so now let's look at the other case okay where truly this is an approximate equation but this is what we can do easily in a couple of lectures so we will do this so this let's for the time being disregard
 disregard this term here so then we will impact here so to solve this equation the best way to do it to do this is to do this graphically okay so let me start can you see this yes so let me start to do this in this way so the left hand side is the function y equal to m okay so it's just this
 like this it's a straight line with slope 1 okay this is this function here but this function here is an hyperbolic tangent okay so we need to draw the hyperbolic tangent now the hyperbolic tangent it can have you know the hyperbolic tangent of x goes like x for small values of x okay
 and so we know that the slope with which the hyperbolic tangent will increase from zero is proportional to its argument and its argument it has this factor here okay so this factor here can be lower smaller or larger than one which is the slope of this straight line
 and in the case beta Jz which is smaller than one okay so this means since this is the temperature that KTTC is larger than Jz
 okay so large temperatures okay if this is true we have this condition we could call it 100 starts very slowly
 and goes towards 1 and 1 and this is the equation okay so the solution of this equation is where this curve crosses
 so you see that here we have just one solution and this solution is this okay so in this case when the temperature is larger than this one in here
 the equilibrium value of the magnetization is zero so the system is dissolved and so we get a result which is consistent with the qualitative description of the problem that we gave the other time
 large temperatures the disordering effect of the thermal bath dominates the magnetization is zero okay
 very good it dominates over both over the strength of interaction so the noise is larger than the strength of interaction
 so you see in this case we are comparing the temperature with the strength of interaction which is also the strength of the field exactly by the neighbors
 and this is analogous to what we have been looking at here where we look again at the strength of the field as compared to the temperature
 so these are always the two things that we compare okay some force and the noise
 so then what happens so we here we have we are at these temperatures so what happens is we lower the temperature
 if we lower the temperature this means that we are in heat up so this means that this parameter here is getting larger okay
 so if in this case it is smaller than one once we increase the temperature this starts to become larger and larger and at some point it will reach one
 what does it mean graphically? it means that the slope is here as we decrease the temperature and increase beta this slope will become sharper and sharper
 at some point it will reach one okay so we will have a certain value of temperature let me call the critical temperature but then we will see that this is after a transition
 where the temperature is exactly given by GZ.pp and when in that case okay so when the hyperbolic tangent starts exactly with the slope equal to one let me draw it here otherwise it will affect the space so here we have slope one and here the hyperbolic tangent starts like this
 and then also one and minus one so this is a function of m left and right and side ok here we have m and here we have these two functions ok so also in this case as you can see there is only one solution which is the one in zero so at this point we still have m equal to zero ok
 but then let's look at the case where now this quantity becomes larger than one so I have beta jz larger than one which means t smaller than this quantity that I now have called tc ok and let's see what happens this is slope one
 and now we need to write this is the last one and this is the last one ok so now we need to draw the hyperbolic tension because the hyperbolic tension starts sharply here
 it starts like this and then it bends because it has to be gamma equal to minus 1 at 1 at the beginning ok so this is the behavior ok and so you see in this case we have 3 solutions 0 points 0 and 2 symmetric points ok
 ok where are these 2 symmetric points I made this picture like this to show you clearly where these 2 points are but if you imagine that we are just slightly above the critical temperature this slope will be here and so the crossing points will be close to 0 ok
 so when you detach from one of the two other crossing points besides 0 they are very close to 0 and as you decrease the temperature they get far away from there ok
 so here you have three solutions M equals 0 and then you have an M plus and an M minus and they are one the opposite of the other
 yeah and these are different okay so as it turns out we will look at this this is a stable this is not a really stable solution so two solutions are useful okay so if you want to draw at this point the behavior of M from this solution okay
 what should we write?
 so we put here T okay and so for T larger than Tc which is equal to Jz over Qb okay the equilibrium minimization
 is equal to zero so it should be this and this is this region and this region and this region and this region
 but then as soon as we get below Tc we start having two other solutions in pairs one positive and one negative
 and they will be very close to zero close to Tc and then they will become larger and smaller than zero as we decrease the temperature
 and this will give us a little bit like this. Sorry, this is a sort of square root.
 Okay? So this is the solution of this graphical analysis which is exactly the same diagram that we have drawn
 when discussing qualitatively behaviour of the system. Okay? Very good.
 At this point, once we have this behaviour here, we can do a lot of things. Okay?
 The first thing that I would like to show you is that actually this solution here can be derived as the minimum of an effective potential.
 Okay? And how we do that? There are different ways to do that.
 So one possible way is to compute with a variational approach the free energy of the system.
 And this method that I usually teach during my course basically shows you that this approximation that we did is the best possible approximation with a non-interrupting measure that we can do to describe the system.
 So with the MIFIC approximation we are choosing the best possible class of a non-interrupting model that is the most similar to the real case that we want to study.
 This is what you get with the variational approach.
 Now I want to follow a different route so also the people who follow my course don't annoy themselves.
 And what I would like to show you is this.
 So let's assume so far the solution of this equation directly gives us equilibrium magnetization.
 So these points here are the equilibrium magnetization.
 The physical meaning is that if you take your sample of a ferromagnet and you measure with an experiment of magnetization you will find this value.
 Ok, this is what does it mean, it's the result of an equilibrium calculation, that value there.
 But now I would like to ask a different question and the different question that I want to ask is ok, that is the equilibrium value, that means that this is what I can measure in an experiment.
 But what is the probability of getting values of M which might not be the ones that I find in equilibrium.
 So what I would like to do now is to find the probability that my instantaneous value of the magnetization, remember we can define the magnetization, the equilibrium magnetization, let me write it like this to distinguish from what I want to do.
 This is defining this way with the average values, that's why it's an average value, and the average values are the ones that predict the result of the experiments.
 But now I want to look at the value that you observe, the distant average value, the one without averages.
 So this is a quantity that fluctuates.
 So you have to think that when you perform an experiment, the experiment lasts a certain amount of time,
 the time you are performing the experiment, which is macroscopic as compared to the real dynamics of your spins.
 So while you perform your experiment, actually these quantities, the values of the spins will change a lot.
 And you will sample many different configurations.
 The idea of the Venebril measure gives you the probability of which each of these configurations is sampled during a microscopic time.
 Okay?
 So, when you measure this within an experiment, this is times of the other observation time scales, seconds if you are very good.
 Okay?
 Microscopically, on the time scale of picoseconds, these configurations will fluctuate a lot.
 Okay?
 So actually, if we go over these smaller time scales, we can ask what is the full probability distribution of this body.
 Okay?
 So we can ask what is the probability of this instantanism.
 Okay?
 So the instantanism magnetization of your system will fluctuate and then its average value of course will be this.
 But on microscopic time scales we fluctuate a lot and we want to understand this is P of M.
 Okay?
 We have the all possible values of M that are sampled within these microscopic time scales.
 Of course we expect that then the average value of this will give us back the equilibrium value.
 Okay?
 So we want to compute this, this probability that the fluctuating variable is given to any specific value.
 Which is different, it might be different from the minimum value, which is the minimum value.
 Okay, so how come we compute this?
 Okay?
 We know how to compute this because this is the usual rule.
 So we need to perform this operation here.
 This is given by the rules for the theory.
 Okay, so this is the thing that we compute.
 Okay?
 So we know what are all the jobs in the sum.
 So we just put them back.
 This factorizes because we are in the field approximation.
 So this will be the product.
 Okay, let me write it as it is.
 Sorry.
 More space.
 We have the total partition function,
 which is the product of the partition functions of the individual sites.
 And then we have the sum over psi.
 And this will be equal to the minus theta sum over i h-effective psi.
 So we can put the h-effective oxide
 and we are looking at the case where this is continuous.
 Okay, and then we have delta and minus 1.
 So now since we have this delta function here,
 we can just substitute the sum.
 So we have that delta x, this is equal to delta over x over a.
 So this means that delta m minus 1 over m sum over i is i.
 This would be equal to n delta m minus sum over x.
 But actually we don't even need this.
 This is correct but we don't need this.
 Okay, we need this later on.
 So to type in, since we have a vector, we can substitute.
 Okay, that's time we need later on.
 So let me rewrite.
 So once we substitute the m with this,
 this is telling me that sum over i is i is equal to m.
 So I can substitute here.
 This will become m.
 This will become one of the total.
 And this will become.
 No sorry, I did something.
 This is a little bit a shortcut.
 The most rigorous way to do this is very different.
 Okay, so I can substitute this.
 I think the rule you wrote before you need to use it because you are taking away one where I am now.
 No, no, let me just check one thing.
 I think we are okay. We can proceed in this way.
 I just want to be sure about the factor here.
 Let me just check.
 I just need to remind you something.
 We need to be careful a little bit.
 So if you remember, actually, when we brought the Hamiltonian and the Winfield approximation,
 there was a term of order h midfield, it was equal to minus sum over f, minus h effective, sum over i is i.
 okay but there was another term we did the computation the other day and the other term was was a term in m square if you remember so we were left with a term which was minus
 j, n, m square
 maybe the other day sorry
 just take your notes of the other day
 so that we
 j, z, n, m square
 well, well, j, n, z
 ok
 e il segno era negativo?
 perché c'hanno due termini
 il positivo e il compensivo
 positivo
 positivo nelle vittoniane o nella misura?
 ok
 ok
 and there was this term here
 when you take allergens this term cancels
 with an analogous term which is in the z-factor
 and so it's the same thing if you just look only at this one
 but there is this term here so we need to put it here
 ok
 so we have a term here which is j and sorry we have minus
 let me rewrite this explicitly
 so here we will get minus
 beta j
 n
 m squared
 half
 z
 ok
 that was this and the third
 ok
 so now ok
 ok
 and this is with this
 this is not the cost
 I don't care
 ok
 very good
 yeah
 I think we have a plus
 that is also effective
 how?
 if we do
 in the lintonian
 and we have a beta
 h
 I mean
 I think
 on the left
 there is a plus beta h
 on the left
 minus beta jn
 m4 z5
 and the other one is more
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 so once I exploit the delta function
 I can take everything which depends on m outside
 ok
 and this will be beta hf m
 minus beta j m
 m squared z by 2
 ok
 and then I am left with this
 sum over all the possible values of the configuration side of this data function
 ok so this is a normalization factor
 we don't care what it is because we can just get it from normalizing the distribution from probability
 ok but then to have it in a full form we need to solve this
 so we need to compute this ok and what is this
 this is an entropic factor so this is telling you
 what is the weight given by the energy of a configuration with the instantaneous magnetization M
 ok so this is an energetic contribution comes from the Newtonian it says the lower is the energy
 the more we weight that particular value of L ok this is just this e to the minus beta h ok
 and this term is entropic because this is telling you how many configurations of space you have
 that have that particular value so this is an entropic contribution ok so we have the energetic contribution here at the exponent and now we have this entropic contribution so we want to copy the entropic contribution
 our aim is now to copy the entropic contribution
 so what we now would like to do is to write our p of m like a normalization factor multiplied by some effective free energy
 with an iron soy free energy
 you can ask myself that you exploited the redempta but then you still have the redempta
