 We complete two sets of enzymatic reactions gathered together and apparently when I wrote
 down the equations there was a mistake in equations. We wrote down these equations two times
 ago and two times ago they were correct. And then at the beginning of the last lecture
 I asked you, tell me what are the equations. Okay, so your colleague had already written
 the equations but you made a mistake. So there was a mistake in the original equations
 but then the whole deviation was correct. So you just need to check, you just need to compare
 the initial formulas of the last lecture with the last formulas of two lectures ago and these
 last ones are correct and you just adjust the results. Ok? Ok, so but now what were we
 discussing, UPN? Ok, so we were just, UPN is two, the part, we started.
 So we started the biochemical pathway that leads to the enzymatic orientation of the concentration of CGMT.
 Ok, now we need to address the last step of the full biochemical pathway, namely to try to understand
 how the concentration of CGMT regulates the opening of the ionic channels of the membrane.
 Ok, so the last thing that we discussed last time was a very simple argument to estimate the current,
 the electric current that goes to one single electronic channel.
 Ok, and we made this a simple computation and we understood that the current passing to a single
 electric channel is the other than the white people.
 Ok, and so this is a striking coincidence and why is that?
 Because, as we recommended the other day, if we look in the experiments performed at low light intensity on a single fiber receptor, what happens is that in absence of light the current fluctuates and then if we just turn on our torch, our light, all the changes in the current are changes of the order
 and from multilogs of one people. So one could be tempted to say that what happens when the photoreceptor is subject to a standard light, very low light intensity, so that for example one single photon is absorbed, what happens is that one single photon opens up and that's why the current changes of one people.
 Beginning after this speculation we realized that this is not possible and why this is not possible because the time scale of the change of the current to the membrane of the photoreceptor is of the order of seconds, while people investigating the time scale of the opening and closing of ionic channels and this is of the order of milliseconds.
 So there is a gap in the time scales between these two processes. So clearly it's not one single channel that is the cause of this connection.
 Instead what happens is that the absorption of one single photon, the photon arriving, as we discussed this photon,
 the triggers a whole series of different steps and in the end what this steps cause is a difference in concentration of this quantity here,
 CGMP, and this CGMP as we will see today, it changes the statistics of opening, closing of the orange channels.
 Okay? So now let us address this issue here. So channels, ionic channels opens and closes continuously.
 Okay? And this is something that we can understand if you look at the behavior of the current in absence of light, which continuously forwards.
 Okay? Since the current is continuously fluctuates, it is the total current in the membrane.
 The total current through the membrane, it will be given by the number of open channels, okay?
 Multiplied by the current of one individual channel, so this one, the one that we completed during the last lecture.
 Okay? So this n now stands, it's not the number of protons, it's the number of open channels.
 Okay? So clearly this quality here and this fluctuations here are nothing else than fluctuations in the number of open channels.
 Okay? So the number of open channels changes continuously, this is a dynamical value.
 So this is an I of T which is equal to NO of T I1.
 Okay? Even in absence of lab, this does not depend on the fact there is lab, there is no lab.
 There are always good questions because these proteins here, channels of proteins, continues to be opened and been closed.
 Okay? So what we would like to understand, what is first of all the dynamics of this opening and closing,
 and then the quantity that regulates the stationary value of the power.
 So let's try to start to model this with a very simple kinetic equation.
 Ok so let's imagine a very simple model where we call K-O the rate at which a closed channel opens up.
 Ok so this is the rate of opening and likewise K-C is the rate of closing.
 So since this is the dynamic of quantity, if we want to write down a question that describes how this and O of T varies in time, we should write something like this.
 The variation of the number of other channels will be given by what?
 By the global number per unit type of channels that are closed and open up.
 And this is given by this one here.
 This is the rate of opening and this is the global number of closed channels.
 Okay. Minus, sorry, this is open C, okay. Minus and C, okay.
 Yes. These are the channels that are open, sorry.
 So this is the number of channels that are closed but open, okay, and in time the T, okay.
 And this is the number of channels that are open but they are closed, okay.
 Is this clear, the equation is clear? Okay, so in principle there should be noise and one can do the computation also with noise or we will stick to something simpler and we will, for the time being, disregard the equations.
 And then the equation for the number of closed channels is analogous, okay.
 But of course, we have this term split, so this will be NOKC - NCKO.
 Okay.
 And then on top of that, we have a constraint that we need to satisfy.
 And the constraint is that the number, the number of open channels plus the number of closed channels is equal to the total number of channels.
 Okay, which is a constant.
 Okay, so basically this means that these two equations are not only ended.
 We can just reduce this second coupled equation to just one equation.
 Okay, so let's for example look at the number of open channels.
 Okay, so to get an equation which only involves an O, we need to substitute them C.
 And instead of having here a C, we will put the total number of channels minus an O.
 Yes?
 I know that we are disregarding the noises, but why are they different?
 So, we have put two palaces different for the noise in the number of opening gates and for the gate.
 In principle they are different because the rate is different.
 Because if you want to take into account of the situations you need to be someone's following under the computation but I can tell you how much should go if one wants to put inside the noise.
 So let's say that let me call XO in general a random variable.
 And this random variable is the number of channels that opens in a time density.
 So, if, okay, so what is this, what is this, okay.
 So, this is, this is a random event and we can assume it to be distributed with a Poisson distribution, okay.
 So, this means that the probability of having this number here, number of channels in time density, this is a Poisson distribution, so this should be e to the minus the average value, okay.
 Okay, multiply by x bar to the x zero, okay, divided by x zero, right, okay.
 So now what is x zero bar, this is just x zero bar, this is ko, okay.
 The average number of, this is the meaning of rate, okay.
 So the meaning of rate is that in time of the t on average ko the t events of, okay.
 So this would mean that the average value of open channels in time of t should have this expression, okay.
 And this also means that since this is an awesome distribution, delta x is zero square average, okay.
 In a awesome distribution what we mean and the equation are equal, okay.
 So this should be also equal to t noted, okay.
 So what does it mean?
 It means that now this x0 we can write it as the average value, okay.
 Plus the fluctuation, okay.
 And the fluctuation has this average here, okay.
 So this is a number, this is a random number.
 This is a constant, okay, and this is a random number, okay.
 So I just shifted the mean value, okay.
 So now let me say that I want to compute, I want to write this with also this term.
 So now I write the then O of T, okay.
 And O of T what is it? This is the number of channels that opens in time with T.
 So this is exactly what I had called previously XO, okay.
 So this would be XO bar plus delta XO, okay.
 So now let me write this explicitly.
 Sorry, this is just a contribution.
 Now then I have to subtract the other contribution.
 I'm looking just at this contribution, okay.
 So let me say then O plus, the contribution that makes the number of enchantments increase, okay.
 So yes, so sorry this is an MC and this is an NC, I don't know, this is the global number, okay.
 Okay, and so here I now substitute, so the first term is KO, the T and C, okay.
 Okay, and then there is the fluctuation, let me, let me leave it like this, I know that the variance of this quantity is this, okay.
 And therefore what I know is that the linear quantity, this goes as K0 to T and C to 1/2, okay.
 Very good.
 But the important point is that I know what is the variance of this random variable, okay.
 So now I can do the same argument for the negative contribution.
 I can see the same in the same way.
 And I compute then D and O minus, okay.
 So if I compute the D and O minus I would get something the same thing because it's another pass on process, okay.
 And this would be, let me call Xc, this other variable, that would be Xc bar plus delta Xc.
 And that would leave Kc delta T and O plus delta Xc.
 So if I now plug them together, what I would get is that T and T is equal to the same part that I had before.
 Ok, so we will get SC KO - LO KC DT.
 Ok, because I am writing actually for the M and then I will write for the T.
 Ok.
 And then I will get the functioning part which is delta XO minus delta XC.
 Ok.
 Very good.
 So now the important thing is that I can compute.
 This is a rough environment.
 So I don't care the details but what I would like on the menu of this I call it delta X.
 Ok.
 What I need to understand is what is the average value of this.
 ok and what is the variance of this noise
 this acts as the noise so I want to understand its statistical properties
 so the average variance is zero because the average variance is zero because this is by definition
 x minus x average so when I average this I get zero when I average this I get zero
 so the average of this noise is zero ok so I have x average is zero
 ok and if I want the equation I need to square this I need to square this and so we have a term where I have the delta x o squared which is this ok
 so I will get the term with the delta x o squared will give me k o and c the t ok and then I have the term with the b squared which will give me plus k c and o the t ok and then I will have the mixed term ok so the mixed term I can assume that they are correlated this is actually not going to be true
 but if I think I can assume that they are more related and so it does not be important ok so this is the variance of my direct x square variable ok and so and as you have the Langeman equation the variance of the noise on a scale of the t should grow like the t and this is indeed what happens ok so in the end what I find out is that it is not going to be true and it is not going to be true but if I think I assume that they are more related and so it does not be important ok so this is the variance of the noise on a scale of the t should grow like the t and this is indeed what happens ok so in the end
 and what I find out is that once I divide this by the t I will have a simply a noise as usual ones that we have in lunch and equation ok so now I divide the t ok this will be this and this I will call it x-i ok
 and this x-i what I know is that its average value is zero and the x-i squared will be given exactly by this
 with the t ok ok because once we write it this way the correlator I should write it like this
 minus the prime will be like by kc.kc plus kc. ok and so in this way I conduct everything to an equation
 which also has the noise ok so the noise is equal in the two cases if yeah I think it's equal
 in any case whatever I want so if I consider the correlations it's slightly different but it should be
 no ok so here I need to be a little bit careful no I think it's correct
 because then you can say ok but this is the same variable that I have in my equation ok so you need to
 make a further approximation and approximate this with a stationary variable or you can keep it
 multiplicative this depends on the sophistication in which you want to treat the equation ok
 however I didn't want to go into this but if you want to take into account also
 this is the way you need to proceed ok ok but this is interesting because in the end what you can do
 yeah you can make some other arguments and in the end you can show that also the properties of this noise depend on the sum of the rates
 but I didn't want to go into some detail, I just wanted to look at the main contribution
 so at least this discussion shows you that these two terms correspond to what happens upon average in a tiny term of the team
 there could be fluctuations, this is the average value of the increment of an o or a nc that you will get in the interval
 ok, so for now once you have these equations as I was telling you we can just reduce to one single equation if you describe this constraint here
 so let's write it for NO this will give here we get a constant and channel KO ok and then we will get minus and C minus is already NO KO
 ok and then we will get minus and O case ok which we can remember the right putting these two dumps together ok
 so the first term is KO enjamblant ok and the second term is this one ok ok ok so we need to solve these questions
 so this simple thing that we can see is what is the stationary value of the number of open channels
 what is the stationary value the stationary value is when the number of open channels does not vary anymore
 so we get it by setting the derivative equal to 0 ok and this gives us
 this is equal to and then we can also look at the dynamics of this equation
 and the explicit solution so here what we have we have the derivative which is proportional to the number itself so we expect an exponential as a solution ok so we didn't have this term here we will find an exponential that is based on 0 but since we have this term here we know that there will be a stationary value which is different from 0 and it is this one ok so what we expect is that the solution
 will be given by something which is this plus A v to minus T ko plus this ok when we derive this we find a term like this ok and usually when we have the derivative of a thing equal to thing by something this is an exponential ok
 this is an exponential ok so what we need to do is to find the a ok so you see this when time goes to infinity this term goes to zero we get the stationary solution this is consistent with what we have defined ok and then we need to find the a this a here and to find a with a fixed initial condition ok so if we call
 n of pi n of 0 the number of open channels times 0 initial condition ok what we have is that now we set 0 ok and we get n of 0 is equal to n of stationary plus a ok
 and therefore the best in this equation is that a should be equal to n of 0 minus n of stationary
 ok therefore this should be equal to n of 0 minus k o or k o plus k c
 and once we fix a we have the solution
 in terms of initial condition and the rates of growth
 ok so what we have we have this number of enchantments
 we start looking at our system we have another certain initial condition
 on a time scale which is the inverse of the sum of these two rates
 the system arrives at the stationary solution
 and that fluctuate stationary solution and fluctuate thermo is the one that we have discovered so far
 which has the amplitude proportional to the external cells
 ok
 so the interesting point that we see here is that the number
 and that what I am interested into in this moment is that the number
 stationary value of the open chandles becomes like this, this is the physiobiological parameters
 the number of chandles that we have on the membrane
 so this is not something that can be influenced by the concentration of CGLP
 it is given, but there is another quantity which is this one
 and this quantity here, what is the meaning of this quantity here?
 if you look at this quantity this is the rate of opening divided by the total rate of opening plus closing
 so this has the meaning of the probability of getting them on a channel
 ok? so we can call this quantity here PO, the probability of getting them on a channel
 likewise we could do the same argument on MC instead of on NO and we would get the same thing
 and since the possible state of a channel R2 either open or closed
 BC will be just limited by one minus PO as respect by concentration methodology
 so in the end with this simple analysis we're telling us is that if there is something that is influenced
 that can be influenced by concentration of CgmP, this is precisely the probability, is the probability, which is the ratio of the ratio of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of the region of
 Ok? This is what we are going to do. And actually, the simplest way to extend this is to resort to a model that we have already studied, which is the two step model.
 Before resorting to that model, one can look at experiments and one can look precisely at how the current membrane varies with respect to the concentration of CGL.
 This can be measured, people have measured what this point is so they can evaluate behavior of this one in here.
 And what they have been looking at in particular is a difference of current from the membrane in its absolute value as compared to the minimum possible value as a function of concentration of CGL.
 And if we look at this quantity, which is left for a positively defined quantity, okay, if we look at what we find we see here which is something like this, okay.
 And if we try to fit this form with a function of form, the best fit is a function, it's a hit function and we get something like this.
 So let me call this protein here, I call it G, as I did in the enzymatic reaction modeling.
 Okay, here Imax is the maximum value, beta mode, so it is as input here, and this value is the value for which, this one here, which is half of the maximum value.
 This one here, and the fit is very good, when I take it and when I am equal to 3.
 Ok, so this picture here reminds us of something that we have already seen.
 So we have already seen a situation where the concentration of certain molecules affect some molecules.
 And we encounter the similar behaviour in the chemo section.
 And in that case, on the y-axis we have the proximity of the flagella motors to rotate clockwise.
 And on the x-axis we have the concentration of a y-axis, if you remember.
 Here we have two different quantities but this suggests that we can try to model the behavior in the same way.
 So in that case the ratio behind the two-state model was the fact that flagella motors are proteins.
 Okay, so disturbing some binding sites where KYP can bind.
 Okay, and at a certain given time there could be a certain number of sites which are occupied by these KYP molecules.
 Okay, and the probability of binding, therefore the probability of finding a certain number of sites occupied depends on the state of the flagellant motor whether it rotates clockwise or whether it rotates clockwise.
 So transposed to this situation would apply a similar framework but in this case the object that we are looking at is a ionic channel. Ionic channels are proteins in themselves.
 Here we have a ionic channel. So we assume that ionic channels again the proteins have some sites where molecules of C, G and P combine.
 So at a certain time for example a C, G and P molecule combine here or combine here.
 Clearly the larger would be the concentration of this G and P molecule the difference would be the probability of finding our protein with a certain number of sites of the fiber molecule.
 But in this case it is even more reasonable to assume that this bonding process is different when the channel is open or when the channel is closed.
 So the conformation of the protein in the cell is different.
 So the probability of finding a certain number of sites occupied will be different in the open state or in the closed state of the other channel.
 So exactly in the same way as we did the other time, what we will do is that we will express the probability of finding any sites occupied in the open state in a most normal-like way.
 So this will be E to the minus V, that is energy, F of M, and we will assume this energy to depend on the state and to depend on the number of occupied banking sites.
 And so, as we get the time, we will write down this generalized free energy as a zero point free energy, which is the energy of the ionic channel in absence of any Cgm molecule attached to it.
 and then we will assume a certain binding energy in the open state and as before, as we did in the other case, we will assume that binding is stable in the open state.
 So, the binding energy in the open state will be larger than the binding energy in the closed state, but from time in we are moving at the open state and then we need to subtract the chemical potential.
 The chemical potential is the thing that depends on the concentration. The chemical potential tells us how likely the solution in which our protein is found is likely to give molecules of Cgmp to the channel.
 And then to get PO, I'm redoing again what we already did so I'm trying to go quickly because we already did this whole complication.
 PO will be given by the sum over M from 0 to M where M is the number of binding sites.
 What about combinatorial factor because out of the M possible sites there are different ways in which M sites are occupied and then we will put this.
 And then we have the one with the same factor and then the one with this, we come with this and what we get as usual.
 It should be before.
 There are some failures missing, but this is not the fourth one, because we are going to know what they saw.
 Yes, yes.
 Here they are.
 Here they are.
 Okay, so what this would give us, this would give us, this would give us G to the end,
 divided by a quantity that would be called ko,
 okay, where ko is equal to e to the minus beta,
 f, o binding,
 gt,
 okay,
 this is what we get,
 remember correctly,
 you want to do the computation,
 it should be this one,
 one plus zero,
 okay,
 and then we do the same thing for c,
 no sorry, it's one,
 one plus one,
 one plus one,
 okay,
 now it's not right,
 so now we need the same thing for c,
 okay,
 and this is one at the same way,
 this is one over z,
 one plus g over k,
 c,
 this is not the same, okay,
 this is not the same, okay,
 that I have used before,
 let me call it,
 we don't confuse ourselves,
 to the end,
 okay,
 and then we can find z by imposing
 that the probability
 p of plus c is equal to one,
 so we have z
 is equal to one plus g
 over k in the c to the end,
 plus g
 plus g
 over k in the c to the end,
 and then we plug everything together,
 and now it's going to
 find the result here,
 plug everything together,
 and what we get
 is that p o
 is equal to what?
 p o is equal to 1 plus G over k to the O again,
 dividing 1 plus G over k to the O again,
 plus 1 plus G over k to the C again.
 Okay.
 And this is interesting,
 because the number,
 the average number of the channels,
 you divide that before,
 I just cancelled this,
 but the average number of the channels,
 okay,
 it suggests the total number of channels
 would be applied by this TO,
 so I could even,
 it would be exactly by this formula here,
 it would be applied by the total number of channels,
 okay.
 And again, if you remember what you said before,
 the current to the membrane,
 it would be even by the current,
 it's from one single channel,
 multiplied by the number of the channel,
 therefore it would be even by this quantity,
 multiplied by one,
 and divided by this quantity,
 multiplied by one.
 So in this way you have an estimate for the current to the membrane.
 Okay?
 And as we saw from the two-state model in the case of the reception,
 this functional form can be simplified
 and it can be simplified when
 it can be simplified by considering that even this relationship here
 KD in the O is smaller
 than KD in the C
 so that if we have a situation where the concentration
 of C G and P is included
 between these two values
 ok
 this form simplifies
 because every time
 that I have
 G over 18 the C
 is much smaller than 1
 and this means that
 G over 18 the O
 is much smaller than 1
 ok
 so every time we have
 G over 18 the O
 we can use that 1
 ok
 and every time we have
 G over 18 the C
 we can this regard G over 18
 ok so if we make this simplification
 it is like what this is here
 we get from the current
 is a simplified expression
 which would give me
 G to the N
 G divided by
 G to the N
 and here we would get
 G to the N
 of the G to the N
 plus one
 okay
 so then we can
 divide everything
 here you can get
 G to the N
 and you see that we get exactly
 the same functional form
 that was observed in the data
 ok so
 the
 two state model
 predicts
 ok
 predicts
 predicts the same functional
 formula even by the data
 and clearly you see
 that this third here
 clearly is the
 maximum possible carbon
 this is when all the channels
 are open
 and
 this parameter here
 is given by
 the constant
 okay
 so this two-scale model
 helps to rationalize
 with observing the data
 helps us to understand
 why the probability of
 our channel drag rates
 covered
 and it also helps us
 to interpret this parameter
 n, which on the level of feeding
 is just a parameter, but within this framework
 it is an estimate
 of the binding sites
 where the molecules of Cg
 and C can bind on
 on the
 channel. Okay?
 And so in this way
 we have completed the last
 step of our
 biochemical pathway
 that starts with the absorption
 of the form
 and ends with the change of the value.
 Ok?
 So the last comment
 that I would like to make
 about photoreception
 goes back
 to the problem of
 single non-discrimination
 that we already pressed
 a few languages ago.
 So once
 so far we have been
 discussing
 the photoreceptors
 but as I told you at the beginning
 the photoreceptors are just
 the first layer of cells
 that elaborate
 the light signal
 so we have
 all our rods and let's look
 at this equation with low light intensity
 where the rods are
 the photoreceptors that
 function
 ok
 and so some photon arrives
 ok
 and the photons change
 the current
 through the membrane of these cells
 but these cells are
 connected
 ok
 we are then writing
 via synapses
 where there are some synaptic connections
 to bipolar cells
 another layer of the cells
 ok
 which are called bipolar cells
 so each bipolar cell
 has all these signals
 in terms of currents
 arriving from a certain number
 of photoreceptors
 ok
 it's basically
 the connection arrived from
 basically all the photoreceptors
 so each bipolar cell receives
 all these signals
 it's the current
 so there is a current through the membrane
 the current travels
 between the synaptic
 junctions
 between the
 the box and
 the next layer of cells
 and that arrives at these bipolar cells
 and then again
 then rise
 these arrive at the next
 okay
 so now the problem that we would like to understand
 is what happens here
 okay
 so
 what happens at the level of the bipolar cell
 and this is related to the signal to noise distribution
 let's say
 so we have all
 let's say that this bipolar cell
 receives the signal from many
 from many atoms
 there is a new current
 ok
 which will be a function
 certain function
 of the sets of currents
 from all the roads
 connected to the repolets
 that we are considering
 ok so this is the
 ok so these currents
 here are noisy signals
 ok we have already seen
 that by looking at the
 experiments on a single
 phosphopase so this current
 fluctuates ok and it
 fluctuates when there is no
 light it fluctuates when one
 photon is absorbed it fluctuates
 when two photons are absorbed and so on
 ok so there is a more
 distribution of this current
 which is due to the fact that
 maybe some of them has arrived
 but it is due to the fact that
 there are fluctuations in the current
 precisely because
 the number of both enchantments
 is due to the time
 ok
 so at some point
 this noise can become worrisome
 ok
 and why is that?
 because we have seen
 that certain values of the current
 can actually correspond to both
 to the case where one photon is absorbed
 and to the case where no photons are absorbed
 ok
 so now well
 what happens at the level of the vector of the cell
 what is this function here?
 so there are two possibilities
 so one possibility
 and we call it possibility A
 ok
 is just that
 the input
 is just the sum
 so sum is the sum
 of all the carbons of the photoreceptors
 so just the carbons are right
 they have to sum down
 and the input signal is just the sum
 of all this carbon
 and this will be a noisy signal
 but then at some point
 so this is the input
 the input for your bipolar cell
 the bipolar cell applies some filtering
 ok
 so there is some filter
 there is some biological process inside
 of the bipolar cell that adds some filter
 and a cleaner
 current is even enough
 to do the next negative cells
 ok
 and the second possibility
 is that the input
 is only a function
 of the upcase
 right
 ok
 so that
 this input has already some filter
 in operation which occurs at this level
 and then what happens here
 from input 1 to this
 ct
 process which does not
 include that
 okay
 so we would like to understand
 whether the scenario is A
 or the scenario is B
 what can be a good
 filter in any case
 okay
 so let's start to analyze
 the simplest possibility
 okay which is scenario
 and now I will show you
 with a very simple argument
 that scenario A is really not possible
 okay
 so let's see
 what is this input current
 so the input current would be
 the sum
 from K equal to 1
 the total number of photoreceptor connected to my computer cell
 from this area
 so we already
 we already saw what is this
 this number here
 we saw that this is a random number
 ok
 and this random number
 from what we learned from the experiment
 of a single photoreceptor
 we can see that this is
 let me call it I1
 which is one people pair
 the number of photons
 absorbed by
 by the
 photoreceptor
 plus a noise
 and we know that
 even this quantity here
 we have modeled this
 if you remember
 we have seen
 that this quantity here
 can be modeled as a Gaussian
 okay
 if you remember this is what we did
 except in time
 I don't remember how to call it
 sigma
 sigma
 square
 okay
 so we model it in this way
 if we go back
 if we go back
 where actually
 we were very general
 we assume that this variance
 depended on how many
 how many nanofotons were absorbed
 so in principle
 our original formulation
 this variance
 was different
 according to whether one nanofotons was absorbed
 two photons were absorbed and so on
 but we can simplify things
 let's assume that the variance is always the same
 which is not far from one from two
 so we have a simplified version
 if you remember this was the origin
 of this
 of this feature
 we were observing
 a certain talent
 in the experiment on a single-power receptor
 which was
 a function like this
 on global add intensity
 and we said that this is even by
 the superposition
 of several motions
 the first motion
 is centered on
 the case where
 zero photons are absorbed
 this is centered
 on the value of the current
 when one photon
 is absorbed
 and so on
 very good
 so let's look
 what does it mean
 this stands from the average value
 for example this
 one photon is absorbed
 this is the average value
 it's where the quotient is being
 and this
 this is a fluctuation
 which is covered by this quotient distribution
 and the typical
 variance of this fluctuation
 is this parallelism as well
 ok so this we have already studied
 that it's just another way of
 we say the same thing
 ok
 so let's say that
 we have our torch on
 very low light intensity
 and we look at
 all our photoreceptors
 ok
 so here on the x axis
 I just put the index of the photoreceptor
 so k is a
 is a discrete index
 which runs from 1 to the global number of photoreceptor
 that we are considering
 ok
 so let's
 consider first the case
 where we are in the dark
 so there is no external light
 and we measure
 imagine that we can measure
 the current to each one
 of these photoreceptors
 ok
 we know that on average
 we will not find exactly
 in all
 photoreceptors
 precisely because
 we have this issue
 for example
 in one case
 we will find this value here
 the first photoreceptor
 in another one we will find this
 and another one we will find this
 another this another here
 we will find this in the main parts
 excuse me, sorry the x axis
 there is a k
 k is the index of a photoreceptor
 so this is the carbon to measure
 to that photoreceptor
 ok
 I just want to plot the quantity that I have some in that
 ok
 ok
 so now let's
 let's view
 the same experiment
 but with a very very low light intensity
 ok
 with a light intensity
 where let's say
 the average value of absorbed photon
 would be around 1
 just to make an example
 ok
 yes
 what is the number of 20?
 20 ppm parallel is the average value
 to the carbon to the membrane
 in absence of time
 ok
 so now we do the same experiment
 with this very low light intensity
 on average
 1/4 of the photoreceptor is absorbed
 ok, so we do the experiment
 ok
 so this is the reference value
 ok
 so actually it should be the other way around
 because when the photon is absorbed
 it is also a thesis
 so let's take a look at this
 so this is like a b-compared
 so we know that on average
 the carbon is a piece of one b-compared
 but this is just on average
 so if we do the same experiment
 maybe we will find something here
 something here
 something here
 so this cloud will be
 around
 90p stars
 but there will be
 fluctuations
 and sometimes we will find some values
 for example this one
 or this one
 which could correspond
 to one case or to the other
 ok
 this point is here
 ok
 ok
 ok
 so now let's
 these fluctuations are covered
 by this variable
 which fluctuates
 with the Gaussian distribution
 so now let's see
 let's see
 what should we expect
 for if we sum
 if we simply sum
 what would be the equals
 so let's compute
 I equal
 this would be the sum of
 fk of ik
 so now we know what is fk
 so this would be
 i1nk
 plus the sum of k
 so the first term
 is very simple
 this is just the total number
 of photons
 absorbed by
 my retina
 multiplied by
 and the second term
 will be a sort of random variable
 in this side
 which is the sum
 of n random variables
 and n is quite large
 so n for let's say for a star a mantle
 is of the order of 500
 for mambas
 i think it's a 1000
 okay so it's a big one
 not super big but it's
 of the order of 1000 individuals
 okay so now let's
 let's look at what are the properties
 of this noise here
 the noise
 on the backboard itself
 so since this is
 the sum of random variables
 I can apply something to the linear theorem
 and what I know is that
 xa^2 average
 would be equal to Femina
 xa^2 average
 which is
 this is single squared
 ok
 and we know
 that we already estimated
 that in the experiment
 in the motor sector
 this is 0,1 people that
 we already saw that several lectures ago
 so sigma
 is of the order of 0,1 people
 ok
 very good
 so we know that the order
 of this random term
 this is a deterministic term
 which reproduces
 external signal
 ok
 so if and not photons are absorbed
 this term here is really
 proportional to the number of absorbed photons
 so this is what I mean
 that we would like to
 transmit to the brain
 ok
 so if there was no noise
 this would be a perfectly safe
 way to account for what happens
 outside
 but there is this noise here
 so this can be of course
 positive negative
 it's approximately distributed with this balance
 so this error
 this noise here
 if we want to see how loud it is
 we need to take the square root of this
 ok so that would be
 square root of m
 multiplied by sigma
 which is 0, 1, 2, 1
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 ok
 these are 1, it's 1 gigopert
 ok
 so you see this term here
 is with a very low light intensity
 this global number of absorbed photon
 is just a few
 4, 5, 6
 if we are low light intensity
 this is a small number
 ok
 so let's see what's this
 ok
 so with 500
 with 500
 for salamander
 with 500
 and 500
 this will be approximately
 something that is slightly larger
 let's say
 if we can take the square root of 5
 exactly that's the number
 okay so the square root of 5
 being of 10
 okay
 if you put here 500
 it's 5 by 100
 100 comes to the square root of 100
 which comes to this one
 and you are left with the square root of 5
 which is 2.2 and something
 okay
 sorry what is the n
 n is the global number
 the total number of
 of lots
 basically almost all the rods connect with
 each of the cells
 thank you
 so you see that
 when n is
 4000 for example
 this is much larger
 okay
 so the point of this argument
 is that in animals
 this term here
 at low life intensity
 is of the same order as this one
 So, if the bipolar cell simply stung the currents coming from the photoreceptors
 it would do a very poor job
 because already at the level of the input
 the running signal, the global current
 could have nothing to do with what happens in the other side
 so clearly there should be some mechanism occurring in the process
 in the chemical processes which are very sophisticated processes that occur at the level of the synapses
 that filter the level of the gap
 we don't know precisely what happens
 there but what we can do is to try to understand
 what would be an optimal filter
 ok?
 so let's imagine that we ask now the following question
 let's say that I know that this input should be a function
 of the currents of the currents
 arriving from the individual current sectors
 and I would like to find what is this optimal filter
 ok
 and we are already set by the algorithm that I have just made
 that this filter cannot be linear
 we expect a linear filter
 but we would like to see this
 with a sort of optimization
 output
 and so this is what I will do now
 ok
 so let's say that I have a certain number of n total of photons absorbed by lightena
 ok
 of course this will be given by the sum of the photons absorbed by the individual photon-acceptors
 by individual rods
 ok
 and I can say that the filter that occurs between the rods and the polar cells
 is a function that I will call as n-extimated of all the darrens
 ok so this is a function that given the input darrens from the photoreceptor
 gives an estimate of the number of photons absorbed by k
 ok so in the linear case what I had is that this was equal to sum of k of mk plus some noise
 and we understood this is just proportional to the character
 I just wrote this equation for the character but I just multiplied by i1
 and that's the sum of the character
 ok so then what we understood is that this term is this term here
 so this is proportional let's say to sum over k
 i1 and k so this is proportional to this ok
 this was in the linear filter case and we understood that this doesn't work
 so we got the 1 so we see here
 and what we want to find out what is the best possible filter that we can build
 with the currents rate A
 so to do that we will define again in a similar way to what we already need
 the level of the single photoreceptor
 but now we will do at the level of the whole system
 we will define an error function
 and the error function will be what?
 we need the real value of absorbed the proton
 minus the estimated value of absorbed the proton
 which is a function of the end case
 x^2
 and what can we say?
 we can say that an optimal filter will be a filter that minimizes this error function
 ok
 so this error function is a functional of the function of the currents
 ok
 this is functional
 and now we want to find the ultimate filter by minimizing this error
 so what we need to do this is to take the functional derivative of this epsilon
 with respect to an x that is this function on the other case
 except this equal to 0
 and this defines the optimum filter
 of course there is a problem
 because now we already know that this i case
 this is what we started with this i case
 it has a fluctuating part
 ok
 so this function has inside it has some noise
 ok
 so I mean
 we cannot solve this problem in this way
 because there is this noise
 what we can do is to take the average error
 and this average error
 it is a well-defined quantity
 because once we average
 we get rid of the random variables
 and this operation at this point
 can be analytically performed
 ok
 so we now want to perform this operation here
 to do this operation here
 we need to compute this epsilon
 at least write it easily
 and then we know from the data
 ok
 can you repeat the procedure
 I don't know why we have to take the
 mean value of the
 you can write it without mean value
 but then you don't know how to operate analytically
 analytically when you have random variables
 you don't know the specific properties of a single
 realisation of the mouse, you just know its statistical properties
 so anything analytical that you can do
 is once you perform out of this
 otherwise you are not able to do anything at all
 so here this means that we want to find out
 of the filter that on average performs
 ok so what is this average
 ok so this average in fact the sources of noise
 in the case of this photoreceptive process
 the fact that the number of photos that are absorbed
 is a random variable it is possible and distributed
 and the fact that even when we fix the number of absorbed photons
 there are fluctuations of thermal origins in the random pattern
 these are the two sources of errors that we discussed many times so far
 so this is related to the fact that we have a probability distribution
 of all our IKs
 these are all random variables
 and also the number of absorbed photons
 and therefore in general the total number of photons is 75
 ok
 so these are the two
 the probability distribution we need to take into account
 ok
 the IKs are here and IKs here
 ok
 and so epsilon will be epsilon b
 epsilon b
 we need to perform the averages
 so these are continuous variables
 and these are discrete variables
 ok
 so we need to sum all the discrete variables
 ok
 so we will have a sum of this
 that is done here
 and then we will integrate all the continuous variables
 so we have something like this
 ok
 and then we will have the p of 5 k's
 and n total
 and then we will have the function
 that we will get n total
 minus nx
 which is the function of this variable c
 ok
 so now with respect to this
 quantity here this is the average value
 we are interested in minimizing this with respect to nx
 ok
 so we are interested in the dependence of all the currents
 to perform this derivative here
 ok
 so this is a functional derivative
 how does a functional derivative work?
 you probably already know this
 but let's say that we have a function g
 which is a functional of a certain function f of x
 and this is an integral
 because here we have an integral
 so this would be something integral over x prime
 by searching coefficients
 and a function of the function of x
 ok
 so what's the correspondence
 between this generic notation and this one
 x is the set of the k
 ok
 and this coefficient
 in our case
 will be to build itself
 ok
 and f of x
 in this case
 will be
 n x
 of the other case
 and v
 will be
 n of
 minus f
 okay so this is
 this is the equivalence
 from what we really have
 and we see the fragmentation
 so if we want to take
 the functional derivative
 we really want
 to understand how this one in here
 changes
 when we perform
 a little change
 in the function f around one of x
 this means taking the function of the negative
 this depends on this function
 f in this
 complex way
 we want to change a little bit
 this function
 in the specific position x
 and we want to see how this integral changes
 ok
 so the way
 to understand how to do this
 is as usual
 this is the weak half a minute explanation
 ok
 so we just
 we just
 ok
 so if we discretize
 let's say that this is the x prime axis
 and we discretize the small intervals
 ok
 so this will be done
 sum of the A, I number the A each one of this integral
 ok
 of A, of XA
 prime
 B
 of F
 of XA
 prime
 ok
 and now taking the derivative let's say that X is here ok
 value X that we are considering is here
 so among this sum we just need to pick up the interval
 where X prime A is equal to X ok
 and take the derivative with respect to F
 ok so you see if we take this let's call it F of
 and so basically we need to derive this and so you see that the derivative basically acts with me
 so this will give you when we take the derivative with respect to Fx of this
 what do we get? among the sum we will pick up the term of the sum when x-prime F is equal to x
 and take the normal derivative with that point there
 so that will give us A of x multiplied by the derivative of the function B to give F of x
 This is very long ago, so I would at least introduce the idea of what you should be discussing in some of the courses I guess
 Can you repeat, why the distribution to a B is also tenfold as a random variable
 If we can evaluate the new value on a probability distribution that is the upper p function of the random variable pk and the total, right?
 But why also the total is a random variable?
 Because the real number of absorptive photons is a random variable
 because absorption is a one-two process and so is a logical receptor.
 If the outside light has a given light intensity,
 the number of absorptive photons for two is itself in a possible distribution.
 Okay.
 Okay, this is why this is random variable.
 The estimated it is a random variable because it is a random variable slash pk and x.
 And estimated because the ik are random variables, yes.
 So, sorry, we are using the, I mean, it is like a function of a random variable.
 Exactly.
 It is a function of a random variable because every function is a function of a random variable.
 Every f is an f.
 But now there are no random variables in order.
 Now these levels are integration variables because we average them.
 These are just integration variables inside the integral.
 So these are random variables if you look at the specific value.
 But once you average this is an integration value.
 Excuse me, the first term is product.
 The product of DIA.
 Because you have for each photoreceptor you have to integrate all the carbon through that.
 All the possible values of that carbon.
 Very good.
 So in the end it is much easier than what it looks like.
 So you just take a delivery.
 You just close your eyes.
 It's like this is a variable and a function and you take a delivery.
 Okay.
 D-I-K.
 I don't see it from here.
 It's D-I-K.
 You are integrating over all the I-Ks.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 You need to unrage over this random variable.
 So you need to integrate over the I-Ks and to sum over...
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 So sorry.
 Yes.
 Unfortunately, there is a little bit of background noise.
 Okay.
 So let's do this.
 Okay.
 So let's do this.
 Okay.
 So let's do this.
 Okay.
 Let's do this derivative.
 Okay.
 So let me erase this.
 Let me divide this here.
 So we have two here.
 So we need to take the derivative of this.
 We take the derivative of this with respect to an X.
 The integral disappears.
 Okay.
 Here the integral disappears.
 Okay.
 We start with an integral.
 We have an integral.
 We select only the value that's very interesting in the derivative.
 So, the upside over an X of the IKs.
 When I look at this, the integral over the IKs disappears.
 Okay.
 The sum remains because the sum is not over the IKs.
 So we can get this is the sum remains.
 This is from zero to infinity.
 And then what we get is P of IK and total.
 Okay.
 And then we need to derive this function here.
 So we get two.
 And total.
 Minus MF.
 Obvious case.
 And then we would need to take the derivative of NX with respect to NX which is one.
 So this is the result of the functional derivative that we need to set it to 0.
 Sorry.
 Minus one is the derivative of minus NX.
 Sorry?
 I have the derivative in NX, not minus.
 Yeah, there is a minus.
 We need to set it to 0.
 Okay, so what we get therefore, at this point this would be the optimal.
 The optimal is the solution of this equation.
 Okay, so let's say, what does it give?
 This is going to be here.
 So let's break down to the terms.
 So the truth we can erase it.
 So this term is n total, sum, sorry, n total,
 and total, something like pi, pi, i, k, and total.
 Okay.
 And then we get, so this should be equal to the sum of the total of pi, i, k, and total,
 and then we get an x optimal of x.
 Okay.
 Okay.
 Now we can get an x.
 Okay.
 So now this sum here, you see this does not depend on n total.
 Okay.
 So we can sum by itself.
 Okay.
 And what is this sum?
 So this is a probability of two variables.
 This set of variables and this variable.
 And we are summing all the variables.
 So we are marginalizing with respect to one of the variables.
 So this sum here is nothing else than the probability distribution.
 Just the IPs.
 And so what do we get?
 We get the optimal filter.
 And this one will be here.
 Okay.
 So we got this for, sorry, we got it.
 Okay.
 So we arrived so far here.
 How much time do we have?
 10 minutes, maybe 5-9 minutes.
 Okay.
 Very good.
 So at this point it is convenient
 to rewrite everything in terms of the single photoreceptors.
 So we will assume that each single photoreceptor
 works independently of the other ones, which is reasonable.
 Okay.
 So the number of photons absorbed by one photoreceptor
 is independent of the number of photons absorbed by another photoreceptor.
 So if you assume this, the first thing that we can say is
 that is this 3K aphoryses that will become the product of the probability of having a certain current
 that was coming from the photoreceptor.
 And then now we would like to rewrite the second one in here, instead of writing this in terms of the total number of absorbed photons, we would like to see this spectralized in terms of the number of photons absorbed by each immunohorceptor.
 And this is easy to do and why is that because we know that P over IK and top we can write it as the sum of K over NK of all the NKs.
 Ok. Of P of the IKs NKs delta and top minus sum of K NK. Ok. So this is the usual change how to the if you have a set of random variables
 how to derive the probability of a function of those variables. Ok. So imagine that you have this probability of the NK's and you want to find out the probability of N dot which is a function of the NK's. Probability theory tells you that this is the formula that you need to apply and you study that in the statement course. Ok. So we will not reiterate this again. We have this expression here.
 So we can just use this expression here. Plug this inside of this. Ok.
 And then you see once I've done this, I can perform the sound of my top. Ok. I can perform the sound of my top. Ok.
 And when I perform the sound of my top, and when I perform the sound I just implement this delta function. Ok.
 And basically the result of this sound is that everywhere I have my top I substitute that I have a sound of a k or a sound of a k like that. Ok.
 So this probability distribution, this expression here becomes p, sorry, lx optimal
 it becomes, this shift is over there and top becomes the sum, so this becomes the sum over all the mks.
 So I bring this sum outside this one.
 Then I implement the delta, so the top becomes the sum over k over mk.
 Ok, this is where the top was.
 And then I have the p of all the ik's and k's.
 Ok, and then I have divided the p of all the ik's.
 Ok.
 And then once again, what I can do is assume that all the photoreceptors, they function independently one on the other.
 So I can use this and I can assume the same factorization for the ik's.
 I want to reduce myself to a product of a thing that happens in a single receptor, this is my name.
 so I do this, so this becomes the sum of all mk's, sum of the k in k and here we have the product of the k of p, i, k and k and here we have the product of the k, i, l, it's probably the other way, p over i, l.
 ok so this is what i have ok so this helps me to simplify a lot and why is that to understand that let's write this explicitly so we understand what this is so this what this is this is sum let's write it explicitly this is sum over the number of absorbed the photon of photoreceptor 1
 from E from E from E. The sum of the absorb of the proton so from photoreceptor 2 from E to E. Sum of N to E. This is the symbol.
 Ok. So this is a sum. So this is N1 plus N2 plus Nm. Ok. This is a product. So this will be P, I1 and 1, P, I2 and 2, P, Im and n.
 And then I will have a product here P of I1, P of I2, P of Im.
 Ok? So now let's perform this answer. Ok? Let's start with the first step here.
 Ok? Let's start with the first one. Ok? So, I want to perform after the two. Let's forget. Let's assume that there are not the other ones. Ok? Let's forget the other ones, just at least the first one.
 So now, the sum of an entity. What does the sum of an entity? This is not involved in the sum of an entity. The sum of an entity is just this term here. Ok?
 So what is the sum of an entity? It is just the PI2, right? I am not generalizing, but I am not able to do it because of it.
 And the same is true for all the other ones. So the only contribution I am left with is the sum of an entity. Ok?
 I am left with the sum of N1 of N1 P of I1 N1 divided by P of I1. Ok?
 This is what I get for the first one. Ok?
 And then I will have the second one, the second one with M2. It will be exactly the same, but with 2 instead of 1. Ok?
 So I will get the sum of M2 and 2, P of I2 and 2 divided P of I2.
 And then I have all the other ones, they are all the same.
 They are not all the same because they are from different photoreceptors,
 but the functional form of this term is the same.
 And so in the end what I get?
 Excuse me, could you repeat why this last passage?
 How did we get?
 How did we get?
 How did we get?
 This last expression, sorry, the last passage.
 This one?
 Yes, yes.
 Okay, so let's start to perform this computation.
 Let's start with the first term of the sound.
 So you need to forget all the rest.
 Okay?
 So when you have the first term,
 here you need to perform so many sums.
 One sum will evolve and one.
 It's the first one.
 And all the other sums will involve things that are not one.
 Let's do this other ones first.
 So let's start to do the sum for N2.
 When you sum over N2,
 what is the only thing that we mention N2?
 It's this one.
 When you sum over N2,
 you are performing the sum
 of a probability distribution of two variables
 over the second one.
 So you are marginalizing
 over the second variable.
 The result is the probability distribution
 of just the first variable
 which is this.
 So the two cancels.
 And the same is true
 for all the other sums.
 For all the other sums.
 Okay. But for the first one.
 The first one is this.
 Then you meet the argument
 with all the other numbers of the sum
 and you get this.
 Okay.
 So in the end
 what we got
 is our optimal filter
 okay
 so we can stop here
 I just write down the final result
 and then we will finish tomorrow
 so we got that the optimal filter
 is just what?
 is just the sum
 of a k from 1 to the n
 of what?
 of the sum
 of the nk
 of the 0 to the infinity
 of nk
 p
 of ik
 okay
 divided by p
 of ik
 okay
 so we
 we stop here
 and tomorrow
 we will just use what we already know
 about this probability distribution
 we will complete this expression
 ok? Because we know
 we already know in single photoreceptor
 what these distributions are
 and we will exploit
 this knowledge
 ok?
 ok so see you
